When you wear something every day, you want to be sure it really works for you. Thats why Android Wear offers countless design choices, so you can find the watch that fits your style. Want a round watch with a more classic look? Feel like a new watch band? How about changing things up every day with watch faces from artists and designers?  With Android Wear you can do all of that. And now, Android Wear watches work with iPhones. 

Android Wear for iOS is rolling out today. Just pair your iPhone (iPhone 5, 5c, 5s, 6, or 6 Plus running iOS 8.2+) with an Android Wear watch to bring simple and helpful information right to your wrist:


Get your info at a glance: Check important info like phone calls, messages, and notifications from your favorite apps. Android Wear features always-on displays, so youll never have to move your wrist to wake up your watch.
Follow your fitness: Set fitness goals, and get daily and weekly views of your progress. Your watch automatically tracks walking and running, and even measures your heart rate.
Save time with smart help: Receive timely tips like when to leave for appointments, current traffic info, and flight status. Just say Ok Google to ask questions like Is it going to rain in London tomorrow? or create to-dos with Remind me to pack an umbrella.





Today, Android Wear for iOS works with the LG Watch Urbane. All future Android Wear watches, including those from Huawei (pictured above), Asus, and Motorola will also support iOS, so stay tuned for more.

Dr. Seuss once said: Today you are You, that is truer than true. There is no one alive who is Youer than You. We agree. So whoever You are, and whatever You likeAndroid Wear lets you wear what you want. 

Posted by David Singleton, Director of Engineering, Android Wear Google has changed a lot over the past 17 yearsfrom the range of our products to the evolution of their look and feel. And today were changing things up once again:


So why are we doing this now? Once upon a time, Google was one destination that you reached from one device: a desktop PC. These days, people interact with Google products across many different platforms, apps and devicessometimes all in a single day. You expect Google to help you whenever and wherever you need it, whether its on your mobile phone, TV, watch, the dashboard in your car, and yes, even a desktop! 

Today were introducing a new logo and identity family that reflects this reality and shows you when the Google magic is working for you, even on the tiniest screens. As youll see, weve taken the Google logo and branding, which were originally built for a single desktop browser page, and updated them for a world of seamless computing across an endless number of devices and different kinds of inputs (such as tap, type and talk).

It doesnt simply tell you that youre using Google, but also shows you how Google is working for you. For example, new elements like a colorful Google mic help you identify and interact with Google whether youre talking, tapping or typing. Meanwhile, were bidding adieu to the little blue g icon and replacing it with a four-color G that matches the logo.


This isnt the first time weve changed our look and it probably wont be the last, but we think todays update is a great reflection of all the ways Google works for you across Search, Maps, Gmail, Chrome and many others. We think weve taken the best of Google (simple, uncluttered, colorful, friendly), and recast it not just for the Google of today, but for the Google of the future.

Youll see the new design roll out across our products soon. Hope you enjoy it!

Posted by  Tamar Yehoshua, VP, Product Management & Bobby Nath, Director of User Experience



Google has changed a lot over the past 17 yearsfrom the range of our products to the evolution of their look and feel. And today were changing things up once again.