My name is Rita Masoud and I am a refugee. I was born in war-torn Kabul, Afghanistan. When I was seven, my family and I fled to Europe with our belongings in a single suitcase, hoping for a safer and better future. Our journey involved many dark train and bus rides, as well as hunger, thirst, cold and fear. Fortunately, we received asylum in The Netherlands, where I grew up in a safe environment and was able to find my way in life. Today, I work for Google in California.

I was lucky. But as the refugee and migrant crisis has grown, many people like my family are desperate for help. Last week, Google announced a 1 million (~$1.1 million) donation to organizations who are providing front-line humanitarian relief to refugees and migrants around the world. Today, we're inviting you to join us. To double the impact of your contribution, well match the first 5 million (~$5.5 million) in donations globally, until together we raise 10 million (~$11 million) for relief efforts.

Your donation will be distributed to four nonprofits providing aid to refugees and migrants: Doctors Without Borders, International Rescue Committee, Save the Children and UN High Commissioner for Refugees. These nonprofits are helping deliver essential assistanceincluding shelter, food and water, and medical careand looking after the security and rights of people in need. 

Visit google.com/refugeerelief to make your donation. Thank you for giving.




En route from Afghanistan, with my family and some belongings. You can read more about my journey on my blog. 

Update September 18: In just two and a half days, you've helped us reach our goal to raise 10 million (~$11 million). Thank you for your contributions to help refugees and migrants in need.

Posted by Rita Masoud, Product Marketing Manager, Google.org  Another week flown bysometimes the pace is enough to make you need a dislike button. Heres a look at the past seven days as seen through Google Search: 

Tick tock
A 14-year-old teenager named Ahmed Mohamed found himself in the spotlight this week, with searches for his name soaring above 500K. Mohamed, who lives in Texas and is Muslim, was arrested on Monday after he brought a clock that hed made himself to school and it was mistaken for a bomb. In the days that followed, thousands of people expressed their support for Mohamed online with the hashtag #IStandwithAhmed, and he received invitations to visit the White House, MIT, Facebookand yes, even Google. As more and more people heard about the story, they turned to search with questions like What did Ahmeds clock look like? and What was Obamas response to Ahmeds clock?

Natures ways
California has been battling brutal wildfires this year, as the drought has dried up fields and forests across the state. Last weeks Butte Fire threatened thousands of acres and burned hundreds of homes, and it seemed like as soon as it was contained the Valley Fire in Lake County was blazing. Searchers turned to the web with questions like How does a wildfire create its own weather? and Why are the wildfires getting worse? But while firefighters worked around the clock up north to stop the inferno, southern California was breaking records for rainfall. Really. Tuesday was the second-wettest day in L.A. in September since 1877, with 50,000+ searches for [weather Los Angeles] as astonished Angelenos looked to learn more about this unfamiliar wet stuff falling from the sky. 


Mother Nature wasnt through with her surprises, though. Wednesday, an 8.3 magnitude earthquake struck off the coast of Chile, forcing 1 million people to evacuateand causing 2 million searches for [Chile earthquake]. Tsunami warnings were in effect as far away as California, Japan and New Zealand. Despite some casualties and billions of dollars worth of damages, experts say that Chiles investments in structural reinforcements and other earthquake preparedness prevented the disaster from being much worse.

Debate club
The Republican presidential debate was the subject of more than 5 million searches this week as people looked for more about the candidates and issues. While Donald Trump was the most searched candidate both overall and in nearly every state, he had some competition from former Hewlett-Packard CEO Carly Fiorina. Fiorina drew attention for her performance in the debate, in particular her opposition to Planned Parenthood (the subject of more than 200K searches this week) and her reaction to comments Trump had made about her in the press. Taking Trump to task for past comments was a theme on Wednesday; in fact, the top searched moment of the night was when Jeb Bush asked Trump for an apology to his wife.



Posted by Emily Wood, Managing Editor, who searched this week for [drywall anchors] and [pine state biscuits] Mariette DiChristina is the Editor in Chief and senior vice president of Scientific Americanthe first woman to hold the role in the magazine's 170-year history. She has been a Fellow of the American Association for the Advancement of Science since 2011 and served as president of the National Association of Science Writers in 2009 and 2010. She joins us here today to share her perspective on the Google Science Fair, which is in its fifth edition this year. -Ed.

This marks my fifth year with the Google Science Fair. In October 2010, when I had my first conversations with my friends at Google about their idea to create a global online science fair that any kid 1318 could participate in, I thought it sounded pretty cool. But I couldnt then imagine just how inspiring and powerful such a competition would turn out to be in reality.

At the time, I hadnt even been editor in chief of Scientific American for a year, but I had real ambitions to try to do something to make a difference in educating our young people about science. You see, I believe that science is the engine of human prosperityits the way we grapple with some of the worlds most challenging problems, from cures for diseases to living sustainably in a finite world. So Ive always seen the idea of fostering evidence-based thinking in our next generation of global citizens as vital.

Now, five years later and working with partners LEGO Education, National Geographic and Virgin Galactic, the Google Science Fair has an impressive track record of enabling our worlds young scientists to shine. Over the years, theyve tackled serious issues, like world hunger and the energy crisis. Their projects have worked on how to diagnose and treat diseases like cancer and Alzheimers. Theyve engineered flashlights powered by their hands and plastics made of banana peels. And to date, the fair has provided almost $1 million in scholarships, and sent four grand prize winners on trips around the world to further their scientific passions.

Tonight we added some new winners to that list as we recognized and celebrated the 2015 top 20 finalist projects and the bright young scientists behind them:


The Grand Prize went to Olivia Hallisey for creating a novel way to detect Ebola.
Girish Kumar won the Google Technologist Award for helping improve learning through auto-generated study questions.
The National Geographic Explorer Award went to Deepika Kurup for her idea to use solar-powered silver to create clean drinking water.
Krtin Nithiyanadams project focused on improved diagnosis and treatment of Alzheimers Disease and won him the Scientific American Innovator Award.
Pranav Sivakumar'sautomated search for gravitationally lensed quasars earned himthe Virgin Galactic Pioneer Award.
And Anurudh Ganesan took home The LEGO Education Builder Award for his unique twist on effectively transporting vaccines.


If you didnt get to tune in, you can still watch the Awards Show live stream and check out the complete list of impressive finalists and winners, including our first ever Inspiring Educator, Aydan Meydan from Bosnia and Herzegovina.



In all of these finalists and the thousands of submissions from students in 100+ countries, we see something common. These students are inventive, thoughtful, and determined to help make the world a better place. All they need is a chance and a platform to do so. And, unlike some of us adults, they are ready to try things that other people think are impossible. I find them inspiring.

Its imperative for us to support and encourage our young people to explore and challenge the world around them through scientific discovery. So were especially glad that Ahmed Mohamedthe 14-year-old clock maker from Texastook us up on our invite to attend this years event. Curious young scientists, inventors and builders like him should be encouraged and empowered.


The past decades have brought tremendous innovations and challenges, and none of us knows what the future of scientific discovery holds. But I can tell you one thing: its going to be better thanks to these kids. They will be part of building a brighter future for us alland as they do, those of us at Scientific American,Google, LEGO Education, National Geographic and Virgin Galactic will be cheering them on.

So start thinking of your ideas for next year! We cant wait to see what youll try next. 

Posted by Mariette DiChristina, Editor in Chief of Scientific American and Chief Judge of the Google Science Fair Even if you werent trying to keep up with all your fall shows returning, this week was a busy one. Heres a look at what captured our attention the past seven daysfrom the Pope to a little rat with a big dream.

Also, were changing up this series, so this will be our last regular Friday post for a while. Well be back soon in a different format. Until then, keep on searchin on. 

Pizza rat is all of us
Lets start with the important stuff. This week the Internet was captivated by a YouTube video showing a rat carrying a slice of pizza down the stairs of a New York subway station. There were more than 50K+ searches for Pizza Rat on Monday, and the 14 second-video has more than 6 million views at last count. But while #PizzaRat memes multiplied across the web, New Yorkers had some more unsettling questions in mind, like: How many rats are in New York? and What is the rat to people ratio in New York? (Are you sure you want to know?) Whether Pizza Rat is a hero or a quitter, something about him spoke to us. Because in a way, arent we all just rats trying to find a slice of pizza in the subway station of life? 



Hello, Pope Francis
This week Pope Francis became the fourth pope to visit the United States, in a highly anticipated tour that took him from D.C. to New York, with a Philadelphia stop still to come. Every day of his visit has brought headlines and curious searches (more than 500K on Tuesday)and hes been busy. He met with President Obama (and the Presidents dogs) at the White House, stopped by the Capitol to give a joint address to Congress (the first time a pontiff has ever done so), canonized Junipero Serra, visited the 9/11 Memorial, spoke at the United Nations and made statements on everything ranging from climate change to the refugee crisis. 

Meanwhile, people have been asking all sorts of questions about the Pope and his visit. Perhaps the most interestingand inspiringsearches about the Popes visit are those looking for information on what he has said. Notably, people wanted to learn more about Thomas Merton and Dorothy Day, whom the Pope described in his joint address to Congress as Americans who had built a better future through hard work and self-sacrifice (the other two Americans he mentioned? Lincoln and Martin Luther King, Jr.).  In fact, searches for Dorothy Day, the founder of the Catholic Worker Movement and an advocate for social justice, spiked 1700x after the Pope discussed her in his speech.



It aint over til its over
This week baseball fans and others said farewell to Yankees catcher Yogi Berra, who died at age 90. A Hall of Famer who appeared in 21 World Series as a player, coach and manager, Yogi was perhaps best known for his nonsensical, sometimes koan-like statements (some of which its disputed he actually made, but all of which youve probably said without even knowing their origin), and as the namesake for the cartoon bear. As news spread of his death, people searched for him more than 1M times, asking What number was Yogi Berra? and How did Yogi Berra get the name Yogi? (Its a good story.)

Posted by Emily Wood, Managing Editor, who searched this week for [pontifex] and [postpositive adjective] 
When I was a student, I relished the day-long railway journey I would make from Chennai Central station (then known as Madras Central) to IIT Kharagpur. I vividly remember the frenetic energy at the various stations along the way and marveled at the incredible scale and scope of Indian Railways.



Prime Minister Narendra Modi at the Googleplex today

Im very proud to announce that its the train stations of India that are going to help get millions of people online. In the past year, 100 million people in India started using the Internet for the first time. This means there are now more Internet users in India than in every country in the world aside from China. But what's really astounding is the fact that there are still nearly one billion people in India who arent online.

Wed like to help get these next billion Indians onlineso they can access the entire web, and all of its information and opportunity. And not just with any old connectionwith fast broadband so they can experience the best of the web. Thats why, today, on the occasion of Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modis visit to our U.S. headquarters, and in line with his Digital India initiative, we announced a new project to provide high-speed public Wi-Fi in 400 train stations across India.


Working with Indian Railways, which operates one of the world's largest railway networks, and RailTel, which provides Internet services as RailWire via its extensive fiber network along many of these railway lines, our Access & Energy team plans to bring the first stations online in the coming months. The network will expand quickly to cover 100 of the busiest stations in India before the end of 2016, with the remaining stations following in quick succession.

Even with just the first 100 stations online, this project will make Wi-Fi available for the more than 10 million people who pass through every day.  This will rank it as the largest public Wi-Fi project in India, and among the largest in the world, by number of potential users. It will also be fastmany times faster than what most people in India have access to today, allowing travelers to stream a high definition video while theyre waiting, research their destination, or download some videos, a book or a new game for the journey ahead. Best of all, the service will be free to start, with the long-term goal of making it self-sustainable to allow for expansion to more stations and other places, with RailTel and more partners, in the future.



This map shows the first 100 stations that will have high-speed Wi-Fi by the end of 2016




We think this is an important part of making the Internet both accessible and useful for the more than 300 million Indians already online, and the nearly one billion more who are not.

But its not the only piece. To help more Indians get access to affordable, high-quality smartphones, which is the primary way most people there access the Internet, we launched Android One last year. To help address the challenges of limited bandwidth, we recently launched a feature that makes mobile webpages load faster and with less data, and weve made YouTube available offline with offline Maps coming soon.

To help make web content more useful for Indians, many of whom dont speak English, we launched the Indian Language Internet Alliance last year to foster more local language content, and have built greater local language support into our productsincluding Hindi Voice Search, an improved Hindi keyboard and support for seven Indian languages with the latest versions of Android. And finally, to help all Indians reap the benefits of connectivity, weve been ramping up efforts to help women, who make up just a third of Internet users in India today, get the most from the web.

Just like I did years ago, thousands of young Indians walk through Chennai Central every day, eager to learn, to explore and to seek opportunity.  Its my hope that this Wi-Fi project will make all these things a little easier.

Posted by Sundar Pichai, CEO, Google
 At the Bronx Latin School in New York City, teacher Katrina Roman says the topic of ancient history doesnt usually set students abuzz. But this week, they took a field trip to ancient Aztec ruins using Google Expeditions, a virtual reality teaching tool built with Google Cardboard. Normally, their assignment would involve poring over photocopied photographs, but instead, they stood at the top of Chichen Itza, then examined detailed carvings at Tenochtitlan. Amid oohs and aahhs, the students shouted out details they noticed and shot hands up to answer Ms. Romans questions.



Katrina Romans class at the Bronx Latin School fills out their assignment after visiting Aztec ruins with Expeditions. The class is part of a history and geography pilot with New Visions for Public Schools.

Starting today, were bringing this experience to thousands of schools around the world with the new Expeditions Pioneer Program. During the 2015/2016 school year, well be bringing kits containing everything a teacher needs to run a virtual trip for their class: ASUS smartphones, a tablet for the teacher to direct the tour, a router that allows Expeditions to run without an Internet connection, and Google Cardboard viewers or Mattel View-Masters that turn phones into virtual reality headsets. Although nothing replaces hopping on the bus for a field trip, there are some places that are just out of reach (hello, Chichen Itza!). Virtual reality gives teachers a tool to take students places a school bus can't. 


To help teachers learn how to use Expeditions, well be visiting thousands of schools around the world and bringing the kit for teachers to use in their classes for the day. Up first: Australia, Brazil, New Zealand, the U.K. and the U.S., followed by more locations as the school year progresses. At each school, our team will show teachers how Expeditions works and help set it up before class.


Right now, teachers can choose from a library of 100+ virtual trips to places like Mars, the Great Barrier Reef and the Great Wall of China. But were constantly adding more trips with the help of partners like PBS, educational publisher Houghton Mifflin Harcourt, British documentarian David Attenborough in collaboration with Alchemy VR, and the Wildlife Conservation Society. Were also working with the Starfish Foundation to help students explore future careers by showing them a virtual day in the life of professionals including a veterinarian and computer scientist. And to help students achieve those career goals, were working with First Lady Michelle Obama to support her Reach Higher initiative by taking students on virtual college tours.


And if you see one of these cars on the road, that's us! The folks at Subaru, who invest in education as part of their Love Promise initiative, have created a fleet of Expedition Pioneer Program rides that we'll be using to bring kits to schools.

If visiting Mars, trekking on the Great Wall of China or exploring what its like to work at a veterinarians office sounds like something your class would be interested in, head to the Expeditions Pioneer Program site and sign up. 

Posted by David Quaid, Software Engineer, Google Expeditions Converting a liquor store into a community-based learning and tutoring center. Providing millions of dollars of 0% interest loans to small businesses. Breaking the poverty- to-prison cycle by building a residential alternative to prison for young adults. This is just a sampling of the big ideas that local nonprofits submitted for our second annual Google Impact Challenge: Bay Area.

Today, after reviewing hundreds of submissions, were unveiling 10 finalists chosen together with our panel of advisorsa group that includes the San Francisco Chronicles Editor-in-Chief Audrey Cooper, The Golden State Warriors Harrison Barnes, The San Francisco Giants Hunter Pence, and CEO of the San Francisco Foundation, Fred Blackwell.

Representing San Francisco, Oakland, San Jose, Santa Clara, San Mateo and more, these organizations span the Bay Area. Learn more about these groups and their ideas for change:


This year, finding and funding new ideas will be just one part of the Google Impact Challenge: Bay Area. We are also reinvesting in a few of our 2014 finalists. The Ella Baker Center, Beyond12, Lava Mae, and Bay Area Community Resources in collaboration with Instituto Familiar de la Raza all were funded last year, and will receive between $250,000 and $1,000,000 in additional funding this year. Were very pleased to continue supporting organizations focused on homelessness, youth employment, and racial justicebig problems that Google.org works to tackle with local organizations, year-round.

What happens next is in your hands! Anyone can vote for the new projects they think will have the most impact on the Bay Area. Again, the top four will receive $500,000 in grant funding, the remaining six will get $250,000 each. 15 additional organizations will each receive $100,000 and all nonprofits will be connected with Googler volunteers and coworking space in San Francisco. Well announce winners on October 21.

To vote, visit g.co/bayareachallenge or check out one of our voting stations across the Bay Area.

When creative, socially-conscious minds and the Bay Areas innovative spirit join forces, big things can happen. Congratulations to all finalists, and best of luck the rest of the way!

Posted by David Drummond, Senior Vice President of Corporate Development, Alphabet From your watch to your phone to your TV, we want to help you stay connected, entertained and informed across all your screens. Today were introducing a few new things that do just that: two Nexus phones, a tablet for work and play, updates to Chromecast and features for some of your favorite appsall working together to make your day a little bit easier and more fun.


New Nexus phones
We made Android to be an open platform that anyone can build on, and today there are 4,000+ Android devices in all shapes and sizes. Androids diversity is why its become the most popular mobile platform in the world, and the latest version, Marshmallow, takes Android to a new level of performance. 

While we love all the Android devices out there, every year we build Nexus devices to show off the latest and greatest, directly from the people who built Android. Today were introducing the latest Nexus treats, both running Marshmallow, sweetened by amazing apps and sandwiched by some cutting-edge hardware (see what we did there?):

Nexus 6P is the first all-metal-body Nexus phone. Built in collaboration with Huawei, this 5.7 phone is crafted from aeronautical-grade aluminum, with a USB Type-C port for fast charging, a powerful 64-bit processor, and a 12.3 MP camera sensor with massive 1.55m pixels (hello, better photos!). The Nexus 6P starts at $499.
Youre not the only one who misses your Nexus 5. Weve joined forces with LG to bring it back with the new Nexus 5X, which gives you great performance in a compact and light package, with a beautiful 5.2 screen and the same 12.3 MP camera and Type-C port as the Nexus 6P. Nexus 5X starts at $379.

Both phones include a new fingerprint sensor, Nexus Imprint, which gives you quick and secure access to your phone, as well as use of Android Pay (in the U.S.). They are available for pre-order on the Google Store from a number of countries, including the U.S., U.K., Ireland and Japan, and come with a free 90-day subscription to Google Play Music. In the U.S., pre-orders include a $50 Play credit to help you stock up your favorite music, apps, games and shows. And, finally, for you Project Fi fans out there, you'll be happy to know Nexus 6P and Nexus 5X will work on your favorite network. Request an invite to our Early Access Program at fi.google.com.





Pixel C
Were expanding the Pixel family by introducing the first Android tablet built end-to-end by Google. The Pixel C brings together the benefits of a full-size keyboard with the portability of a tablet. The tablet and keyboard attach magnetically (no docking mechanism FTW), so its easy to switch between typing and using the touch screen.

And if youre familiar with the Chromebook Pixel, youll immediately see the family resemblance: the Pixel C has the same beautiful aluminum design, great display and USB Type-C port. The Pixel C will be available in time for the holidays on the Google Store.

Cast ALL the things
Today were introducing two new Chromecast devices. The new Chromecast has a fresh design, and is easier to plug into TVs with crowded ports. It supports the latest Wi-Fi standards and adapts more easily to changing Wi-Fi conditions in your home, so you get higher quality video with less buffering. Most importantly, we added two new colors. ;)

Chromecast Audio is a small device that plugs into your existing speakers, so you can stream your favorite music, radio and podcasts over Wi-Fi, similar to Chromecast. It works with tons of apps, including Spotify, Pandora and Google Play Music. Just like Chromecast, it works from anywhere in your home with your favorite devices, including Android, iOS, and laptops. And its available on the Google Store and other online retailers for just $35way less than most Wi-Fi speakers today.

Weve also updated the Chromecast app to make it easier for you to find great things to watch or to play, across the thousands of apps that work with Chromecastwhether you feel like browsing or want to search for a specific TV show or movie. For Cast-enabled apps that arent already on your phone, well suggest one for you. The updated Chromecast app is rolling out on Android and iOS over the next few weeks.

Your favorite apps... for the whole family 
All your shiny devices get even better when you have great apps to go with them. So were making a few updates to Google Play Music and Google Photos.

First, Google Play Music will offer a new family plan later this year. Up to six people will be able to use one account for a shared fee of $14.99 a month (instead of $9.99 per person). Get the dance party ready. 

Sharing is a theme of todays Google Photos updates, too. Were adding Chromecast support to give you that old-school slideshow experiencedimmed lights optional. In the U.S., you can now add private labels to your photos to make it easier to search for specific pics of people with things, places or other peoplesay, that photo of Mom at the Grand Canyon, or of your daughter with her pet bunny. And soon youll be able to pool all your photos and videos with friends and family in one place, and get updates as soon as new photos are added. Best of all, theres no setup involved, and you can use any device. So that dance party we mentioned earlier? Now its easier to gather all the memories from everyone who was there. 

More to love, for more people
From Nexus to Chromecast to Pixel C to Photos, these updates are more than the sum of their partsthey unite great apps with devices that are designed to support them. Theyre built to work together, so they doseamlessly, across all your screens.


Posted by Hiroshi Lockheimer, VP Android, Chromecast and Chrome OS at Google For the last eight years, teams from around the world have been racing to win a global competition to land an unmanned spacecraft on the moon successfully. Its called the Google Lunar XPRIZE, and its been going on in labs and universities from Brazil to Japan to Carnegie Mellon. With 16 remaining teams of scientists, explorers and adventurers hard at work designing and fundraising, the race is on to be the first privately-funded moon landing (and to take home a share of the $30 million prize purse that comes with it).

This week, they all got a little bit closer. Team SpaceIL, a team of engineers based in Israel, has just managed to secure a ticket to the moonin the form of an official, verified launch contractfor its spacecraft on a SpaceX Falcon 9 rocket. The spacecraft will hitch a ride in a specially designed capsule on the Falcon 9; once separated from the launcher and released from the capsule, it will use navigation sensors to guide it to the lunar surface. Heres a first look at the craft that will be heading to the moon in 2017:


An artists rendering of SpaceILs newly-designed spacecraft

And this is where the real fun begins. We kicked off this challenge in 2007 to foster innovation and entrepreneurship in space through low-cost, efficient access to the moon. But until now, all the tinkering has been on terra firma. SpaceILs securing of a verified launch contract by the December 2015 deadline keeps the competition open to all Google Lunar XPRIZE teams, who now have until the end of 2016 to secure their own launch contracts to head to the moon by the end of 2017. 

The moon is not only our nearest neighbor in space, but also the gateway to the rest of the universeproviding exciting opportunities for discovery, and giving the rest of us a chance to engage more with science, technology and innovation. We hear a lot about moonshots these days, but this is the real thing. 

So, congratulations to SpaceIL for getting to this phase, and to the other 15 teams: the new space race is on! Just like the astronauts, explorers and moonwalkers who came before you, youre pushing the limits of whats possiblelets see who will make history.

Posted by Yasemin Denari Southworth, Manager, Cultural Activation & Partnerships Smartphones and tablets have revolutionized the way we access information, and today people consume a tremendous amount of news on their phones. Publishers around the world use the mobile web to reach these readers, but the experience can often leave a lot to be desired. Every time a webpage takes too long to load, they lose a readerand the opportunity to earn revenue through advertising or subscriptions.  That's because advertisers on these websites have a hard time getting consumers to pay attention to their ads when the pages load so slowly that people abandon them entirely.

Today, after discussions with publishers and technology companies around the world, were announcing a new open source initiative called Accelerated Mobile Pages, which aims to dramatically improve the performance of the mobile web. We want webpages with rich content like video, animations and graphics to work alongside smart ads, and to load instantaneously. We also want the same code to work across multiple platforms and devices so that content can appear everywhere in an instantno matter what type of phone, tablet or mobile device youre using. 

The project relies on AMP HTML, a new open framework built entirely out of existing web technologies, which allows websites to build light-weight webpages. To give you a sense of what a faster mobile web might look like, weve developed this demo on Google Search:



Over time we anticipate that other Google products such as Google News will also integrate AMP HTML pages. And today were announcing that nearly 30 publishers from around the world are taking part too. 

This is the start of an exciting collaboration with publishers and technology companies, who have all come together to make the mobile web work better for everyone. Twitter, Pinterest, WordPress.com, Chartbeat, Parse.ly, Adobe Analyticsand LinkedIn are among the first group of technology partners planning to integrate AMP HTML pages.

In the coming months well work with other participants in the project to build more features and functionality focused on some key areas:


Content: Publishers increasingly rely on rich content like image carousels, maps, social plug-ins, data visualizations, and videos to make their stories more interactive and stand out. They also need to implement ads and analytics in order to monetize the content and to understand what their readers like and dislike. The Accelerated Mobile Pages Project provides an open source approach, allowing publishers to focus on producing great content, while relying on the shared components for high performance and great user experience. The initial technical specificationdeveloped with input and code from our partners in the publishing and technology sectorsis being released today on GitHub.
Distribution: Publishers want people to enjoy the great journalism they create anywhere and everywhere, so stories or content produced in Spain can be served in an instant across the globe in, say, Chile.  That  means distribution across all kinds of devices and platforms is crucial. So, as part of this effort, weve designed a new approach to caching that allows the publisher to continue to host their content while allowing for efficient distribution through Google's high performance global cache. We intend to open our cache servers to be used by anyone free of charge.
Advertising: Ads help fund free services and content on the web. With Accelerated Mobile Pages, we want to support a comprehensive range of ad formats, ad networks and technologies.  Any sites using AMP HTML will retain their choice of ad networks, as well as any formats that dont detract from the user experience. Its also a core goal of the project to support subscriptions and paywalls. Well work with publishers and those in the industry to help define the parameters of an ad experience that still provides the speed were striving for with AMP.


We hope the open nature of Accelerated Mobile Pages will protect the free flow of information by ensuring the mobile web works better and faster for everyone, everywhere.

Posted by David Besbris, Vice President Engineering, Search