

As I get ready to leave for Spain in just a few days, I've never felt so giddy and nostalgic at the same time. Half of me wants to sit down and have a good cry for everything I'm leaving behind, and half of me wants to jump up and down for joy for all that awaits me in Spain. It seems like Ive accomplished
quite a bit in the United States in the flamenco world, both in my dancing and
writing about flamenco. Now, to
really understand flamenco and become fluent in it, I simply have to travel to
Spain. Like learning any language,
theres only so much you can acquire outside of its native country. 








I want to be able to express anything with flamenco,
which means I need to expand my vocabulary and acquire a better understanding
of the musical structure and culture that shape the art form. To do so, I will
intensively study at Estudio de Baile Andrs Marn Flamenco Abierto in Sevilla,
participating in their 9-month Advanced level professional courses from
September 2012 to June 2013. The program emphasizes the relationship between cante (song) and baile (dance) to foster a clear understanding of flamencos complex
musical structure and how that structure relates to choreographic expression. I
plan on studying with other masters of the art form, such as Rosario Toledo,
Pili Ogalla, Torombo, and many others.





Andrs Marn







Studying with dancers in Spain
renowned for successfully performing more experimental pieces will enhance my ability to construct
and dance choreographies that express my own true self and also are inspired by
more abstract ideas. Earlier this
year, while working alongside dancer and choreographer Rosario Toledo as part
of the first Philadelphia Flamenco Festival, I experienced firsthand how to present
dance that incorporates intellectual themes and ideas and I want to continue
exploring flamenco in that manner. 







Rosario Toledo







My number one goal is to not be a
tourist flamenco dancer. As much
as I can, I want to integrate myself into the flamenco community in
Sevilla. Beyond simply taking
classes, its essential to my project to perform whenever possible, to
participate in as many juergas (flamenco
gatherings/jams) as possible, to speak with as many flamencos and aficionados as
possible, to travel to many of the smaller towns in Andaluca, and simply put, to live flamenco. Im not entirely sure where Ill end up at the end of the
Fulbright, but keep checking my blog to find out! J 





 

I arrived in Sevilla Wednesday afternoon! I miraculously did not have too much trouble with the jet
lagthats either thanks to the Spanish coffee (Ahhhhh! Finally, delicious caf
con leche!), or that I didnt sleep whatsoever on the plane, and finally fell
asleep my first night in Sevilla. Uf.




Giving up bagels is not so bad when a tostada soaked with olive
oil and with a layer of jamn is the alternative. 




A tostada with jamn that I ate for breakfast this morning. So GOOD!






Moving sucks in any country. My landlady here seems to require me to be quite persistent
if I want anything done. There was
no hot water and the stove didnt work when I got here, she told me she was on
vacation until Friday and couldnt do anything. Then she insisted she couldnt come that day because she had
a doctors appointment, and then she said she couldnt come because her legs
were hurting and she couldnt use the stairs. Hm, maybe if shed chosen one excuse I would have believed
her. (Dont worry, my persistence
paid off).






Heres a picture of the outside of my apartment.(Inside pics to come once Im more settled).Check out the beautiful tile workvery typical of Andaluca.






The apartment is in a neighborhood called Triana, which a
long time ago was the gypsy neighborhood.
Its on the other side of the Guadalquivir River from the city
center. (Interesting fact:
Guadalquivir is the Arabic word for Rio Grande, which is the name of the river that
runs through Albuquerque.) 




A view of Triana from the Puente de Triana. I took this photo this morning as I wandered the city :)






Heres a common flamenco letra about Triana in the rhythm of tangos:



Triana ay Triana

Que bonita est Triana

Cuando le ponen al puente

La banderita gitana.




Triana ay Triana

How beautiful Triana
is

When they put the
gypsy flag

On the bridge





I am also beginning to think that olive oil really is liquid
gold like all the Spaniards say.
Or maybe its just got some magic in it that instantly makes the most
boring bread taste AMAZING.






Im just going to have to get used to waiting in line. Things that should take 2 minutes take
15. Thats just the way it
goes. Even getting my passport
stamped in customs took a few minutes because the officer was in the midst of a
conversation about soccer with his coworker, and clearly that is far more
important than the long line of tired travelers waiting patiently :P





The grocery store closest to my apartment has German
beer. Score. 





Best part of Spain so far:

People singing por rumba at the bar just below my
apartment. Yesssssssssss! (Even if
it is just to get the tourists eating
dinner outside to give them money, its still flamenco).





Last night I went to a restaurant called T de Triana that has small flamenco shows. The best part was a woman that got up to dance por bulerias at the end--she was so flamenco! Tonight I will be going to the Teatro de la Maestranza to see Mara Pags' new show, Utopaas part of the Bienal de Flamenco. 
 

I am going to try to write a little bit about each show I see at the Bienal de Flamenco. Here it goes with the first show I've seen







Mara Pags,Utopa











This womans arms will never cease to amaze me. Never. 



There is something about Maria Pages that makes me feel like she is completely free while she is dancing. I dont know what it is in danceits what we strive for, to have so much control so much feeling and musicality in every cell of the body that it appears as if the body is moving of its own accord, that it is not constrained to exact movements or shapes, but rather is set completely freewhen in reality it is the exact opposite. Thats what we strive forthe freedom of expression that can only come with precision in every ounce of muscle, and Pags accomplishes that. 



The guajiras was one of the most beautiful interpretations of this palo that I have ever seen. I do not usually think of Pages as being particularly femininein fact, quite the opposite. She has no waist, no hipsshe is long and slender and straight. But in this piece she was bursting with femininity and flirtatiousnessif I didnt know better I would think she was a teenager in love for the first time. The way she used her shoulders and her hips gave the illusion that she had curveswhich went along with the theme of the show, La que me atrae es la curva libre y sensual (Oscar Niemeyer). 

Last year in New York, her use of the mantn (shawl) blew me awayonly her long slender arms could control the heavy fabric so flawlessly and bring it alive. In Utopa, she amazed me equally so with the twists and spirals of her red fan. It became like a cardinal flapping its wings rapidly in time with the undulations of the rest of her body. I swear it seemed like it was alive. The three other women danced equally beautiful. The piece begins with them facing in towards one another open their fans sharply. Then they flawlessly would open them in such a way that a perfect circle was made by two of the fansone fan open and facing down and the other open and facing up. That resulted in a few gasps of awe from the audience. 











There were many moments in the performance in which the music was travelling at a high velocity, with the palmas (handclaps) doing contra tiempo or double time, yet at the same time the dancers would be moving slowly although in time. Somehow no energy was lost. Pages did not feel a need to speed with the music, but instead knows how to truly use the music to highlight the movements of the dancers. 



Heres a question I am left with though, and this relates specifically to my Fulbright project:



The show is based on a series of themes. Part of the program reads;



Un proyecto global en el que siete bailaores interpretan junto a Pags la experiencia tica y esttica del deseo, del inconformismo y de la utopia



Utopia es, en su esencia, el titulo de una danza poetizada que se estructura en ocho partes (o versos) que convocan poemas de Baudelaire, Benedetti, Neruda, Machado, Larbi El Harti, y el propio Niemeyer, incorporando adems palabras del Quijote de Cervantes.



So my question is, would this come through if I had not read the program? Is it necessary to write that all outfor the audience to read that before they see the show? Or should the show explain itself? Not that anything that specific could be garnered, but wouldnt the essence of that all come through without the explanation? 

I feel like all great artists have a story, an inspiration, what Twyla Tharp calls the backbone, and sometimes that backbone makes itself perfectly clear and is not in the least bit abstract, and other times it is completely hidden by the flesh of the show, and we simply know it is there and extract that it is there (either consciously or subconsciously) because we know something is holding up what we see. 

I think as well, that as long as the audience member listens to the lyrics, much of the theme can be known exactly. Not that the letras give it away, but as literature they give us a more concrete ability to find the abstract within the metaphors. 










I want to know how exactly Pages and others that incorporate non-flamenco poetry and literature into flamenco. Is the singer responsible for its conversion to flamenco? I want to know more about her creative process and the collaboration between the various disciplines of artists. 






For more about the show go to:http://www.mariapages.com/en_utopia.html




and here is a video clip too:

 



      I love Rosario, and maybe I am biased because Ive worked
with her, but even if I hadnt, there is so much joy that comes across in her
dancing its hard not to love her.
I really think she is the Lucille Ball of the flamenco world, and its
pretty hard not to love that. She
is extremely theatrical, but in a different way than artists such as Mara Pags
or Sara Baras. Rosario is theatrical
in the sense that she uses acting and dramatizing to set the stage for her
dancing. 









Vengo is a piece she created to
perform in the streets in Cdiz, her hometown, and this time she performed in
front of the Giralda tower in Sevilla.
It begins with her taking the train back home from Sevilla. On the train (represented by a few
chairs in rows and sound effects), she answers her phone which is her
flamenco shoea perfect example of her silliness. 









Once in Cdiz she comes alive,
dancing and playing on the beachshe even has a makeshift beach in the middle
of the outdoor plaza in a rectangle of sand and fishing net laid carefully over
the bricks. Rosario then dances por bulerias to recorded music by Dani
de Morn. After setting up her
persona in the earlier parts, now her enjoyment in the dance shines through. I think her theatricality in this was
perfect for an outdoor settingand the audience seemed to agreeputting up with
the heat just to watch her dance. Ol
Rosario!

After the performance I got drinks with Rosario and her family. They are all such sweet people! And I noted that she gets her silliness from her father, who at one point got her attention by throwing crumpled napkins at her. He also insisted on buying everyone more drinks, because as he explained to me using what little English he knows, "beer is very 'portant in espain." He also knows how to say, "being in espain is very good," and indeed it is :)
 I never realized until today that I do not know how to hang laundry on a clothes line. I guess back in the day that was as necessary as knowing how to boil water. Well, now I know I guess, or I figured it out :)




Here's my clothes hanging out to dry!


No one in Spain has aclothesdryer. You hang your clothes on the roof or in the winter on a clothing rack inside. So I found myself this morning hauling my soaking clothes up to the sunny roof of my building and then staring at the basket of clothespins and the basket of clothes and not knowing quite how to begin. I don't have an efficient system down, but maybe in a few months....All in all, I looked around at some of the clothes on other roofs and my laundry looked just like them, so I guess that's a sign of success. And the clothes were dry in just a couple hours--hooray for the hot Andalucan sun! 



A view looking out from the roof. 

 

Israel Galvn, Solo at an outdoor stage in the Monasterio de la Cartuja









The first few times I saw Galvn perfom, I initially began to see his dancing as an exaggeration of flamencohe takes traditional gestures and postures and literally pulls them out of shape, distorts them, extends them to such a point that they are nearly unrecognizable. Buried beneath his complex steps you can see the structure of a basic desplante (a common step in flamenco), but he layers and complicates the desplante, often in such a way that he takes the rhythm of the palmas and guitar that would normally accompany a dancers movement and adds that into his own. 

In Solo it is as if he Galvn is the comps (rhythm) in its entirety; what normally takes several musicians and a dancer to create a rhythm, Galvan does alone. He creates complex rhythms with his body, from hitting out the rhythm on the tips of his shoes, to his teeth and even his eye, to footwork that encapsulates the comps in such a way that it appears as if there is a cajn (percussive box) player, a palmero, a cantaor and a guitarist. In that manner, Galvn is everything; he is flamenco. Normally I think that flamenco comes from the cante, that it all has to begin with the cante, but Galvn goes beyond that, he somehow represents the whole of flamenco in himself alone. And in Solo, he shows flamencos connection to silence and to its surroundings. 









Throughout the show, Galvn plays with the comps, both in the literal sense that his gestures act as if he is throwing the comps itself into the air, into the open space, then chasing it, or walking away from it, and sometimes catching it or watching it fall. He is able to turn the air and the space surrounding him into the comps in the moments when he isnt embodying it. The show represents his relationship to the compsit travels around him, sometimes literally slapping him in the face, knocking him down. Like an invisible element that possesses and interacts with him, it weaves in and out of his body. 

Its the moments when I feel like Galvn should be screaming, and instead there is silence that his movements really strike me, when I really feel something from his dancing. Forgetting all the technique, the analysis, I feel something profound when he dances and I get goose bumps when he finishes a remate (the end of a step, what everything sort of builds to, like the end of a crescendo in music). 


Here's a clip from youtube:






The show begins with Galvn strolling down the pathway towards the stage from upstage, his heels clicking on the cobblestones and his head bowed downwards. As he stands at the edge of the stage a bird calls out in the background. He steps up onto the stage. A motor begins to sound in the distance. If you listen closely you can hear the river just behind the Monasterio de la Cartuja. He begins in silence, simply as an architect with his body. He is the Gaud of flamenco, making a disfigured shape with his body, then quickly returning to standing neutrally. 

The back part of the stage makes intensely deep base notes. It feels as if a heart is beating when he dancing on that part. At other times his fingers move back and forth as if they are being blown in the breeze like the trees in the courtyard on the other side of the wall. 

And I wonder at times during the show what is improvised and what isnt. He uses many of the same gestures and series of movement from his show La edad de oro. There are series that he uses over and over, that are becoming somewhat of a trademark. But I wonder is the whole show choreographed from beginning to end?Overall, the show was extraordinary, and I wouldnt expect anything less from such a genius.




I believe this is a photo of his final pose, when it seemed as if he were almostasphyxiatedby the comps, and he stared at the open sky above him completely still for the last moments of the performance. 




 

    


     I was a little bit disappointed in this show. I had never seen these two dance, and they received an award for most innovative show at the Bienal four years ago. I had seen videos of their performance from four years ago, and couldn't wait to see their newest work, since they utilize modern dance and are indeed very innovative. However, this show became quite repetitive and a little bit boring. 
    

     They both have stunning technique and an incredible rapport with one another. I feel like I can sum up the show like this: they would dance inunison, then one of them would continue dancing while the other would walk away; often, they would grab a hold of the other's limb and pull away from each other creating tension in the shapes their bodies were making. The variety of ways they could puzzle piece themselves together was notable, but there was no overall dynamic. Indeed, the title is fitting, as it felt as if they were living in a private world into which we were never invited. In that way, they continued dancing and whether or not we chose to watch was up to us--nothing about the show drew me into their intimate world. 

    
    The ending was a bit abrupt. I had been hoping there would be some large build in energy--maybe some footwork into a grand finale, but instead they walked to the center of the stage and simultaneously looked out at the audience and the lights bumped to a blackout. The audience seemed unsure if that was the end, and the applause was a bit slow and delayed. Overall, the dancing was beautiful but the show was lacking form. 




 

Photo from my apartment's terrace.


I got a little taste of what Semana Santa will be like when the Divina Pastora Triana was carried through the streets of Triana over the weekend. It was pretty incredible--there is a full orchestra that walks behind her and their music seems to thunder through the tiny winding streets. The actual saint is huge--I think there were 30 people underneath carrying her. 

Each saint is taken care of by a brotherhood or hermandad, which is a group of Catholic lay men that organize the processions. In actuality, the processions are a form of penance and a public display of faith.

Here's a couple of the videos I shot from the terrace of my apartment:

















 This past week I definitely had my ups and downs. I started observing classes this week to decide who else I want to take class from along with Andrs Marn. I think I started to over think the whole thing, and started to worry that I really had no idea what I was doing in Sevilla, and doubting whether I should have chosen Sevilla instead of another city in Spain. I started to doubt myself about what I really want to get out of my time here--there are so many options, so many ways to enter into the flamenco world here, that I was overwhelmed. And so many people have given me great advice, which is good, but at the same time I have to find my own path and figure out what is right for me. 

Eventually I got over freaking out about deciding who to study with. The first time I came to Spain to study abroad two years ago, one of my mentors in the U.S. told me it really didn't matter who I would study with, that for me I would grow as a dancer from living in the culture and understanding the way of life out of which flamenco was born. I'm still not positive about who I want to study with, but I couldn't be happier to be in Sevilla!




Jose Valencia and Rosario Toledo in 'Aleluya Ertica.' Incredible artists and wonderful people. Ol!


Thursday night I went to Rosario Toledo's performance, 'Aleluya Ertica,' and I had tears in my eyes at the end of the performance. It was so moving and intense, and Rosario completely embodied the character of Belisa from Lorca's story, 'Amor de don Perlimpn,' on which the performance was based. Even without knowing the story, the interpretation in this adaptation made the story and the emotions clear between the characters. Rosario arrived at a new level in her dancing, beyond anything I had seen her do before. She said after the show that her performance came from within herself, not from her dancing (she said something along the lines of "sali de mi misma, no de mi baile")--in other words, what she expressed came from a place beyond the movements in and of themselves but from deep within her.  




Fernando Romero in 'Sortilegio de sangre'


Friday I went to see Fernando Romero's 'Sortilegio de Sangre.' It was more of a flamenco ballet in the sense that there was a lot of pantomime and the focus was on telling the story--of Shakespeare's Macbeth. The dancing was incredible, and very much based in ballet and modern, but it did not move me in the same way Rosario's show did. Imagine ABT dancing MacBeth, and then just switch out the dance sequences with some flamenco and that is what this show was like. It was beautifully choreographed and performed, but I think it just doesn't have the capacity to move me in as personal a way as other shows I have seen at the Bienal. 



Friday night, I also went to a flamenco bar where many amazing, I mean the best of the best, flamenco singers were hanging out. It was well worth waiting around for (we had initially planned on going somewhere else, then ending up literally driving around and circling Sevilla, then walking around, waiting around at a bar near the river, and finally went to a place called Rayas Reales). Farruquito was playing guitar and singing--he has a beautiful voice. Estrella Morente sang (and her voice is even more stunning in person). Jos Anillo sang, and many others whose names I don't know. A couple people got up and danced patadas (short informal dances), including La Chimi. It's nights like this that I am here for. These small informal gatherings of flamencos is where flamenco comes from, and to be a part of it is the greatest way I can learn right now. 




Leonor Leal dancing outside in 'La mujer habitada'


This morning, I went to two outdoor flamenco performances in a park near the river in Sevilla. Leonor Leal danced in 'La mujer habitada.' She was able to tell a story through her dancing--I felt there was a narrative or at least expressional arch in the piece. The outdoor setting was also a perfect backdrop.


From everything I've seen and experienced so far, I'm learning the importance of being able to not always be moving with the music--to be able to stop or move slower than the music--that as a dancer I don't have to interpret every note that is played, that more so I need to listen, to stop and just stand, to simply be myself in my dancing and not always be rushing from one step to the next. That is what makes the great artists so great.

Overall the last few days have been phenomenal and I couldn't be happier! Que viva el Fulbright y el Flamenco!

I couldn't be more thankful either. :)
 Is it edible? What is it?....it kind of looks like a cactus leaf without the needles....




Chirimoya!



The chirimoya's insides!




It's delicious and ridiculously sweet....and very common in spain! I can't really explain what exactly the flavor is; it kind of tastes like a pineapple, but with a milkier texture....





Halfway eaten! Lots of black seeds to spit out....




Done!....yum!

 

In Rosarios workshop that I took last week, I had a bit of a revelation about the rhythm in flamenco called martinete. This palo (rhythm) is one of my favorites, although not the easiest to understand as far as the structure and singing goes. Some of my favorite letras or songs are sung in this rhythm. Here are some lyrics I like with very rough translations: 





Del querer a no querer

Hay un camino muy largo

Que todo el mundo lo anda

Ay sin saber como ni cuando

(Of love and not love

there is a very long path

that everyone walks

without knowing how or when)





Yo no soy ya quien era

(I am no longer who I used to be)





Ay en el barrio de Triana

Ya no hay pluma ni tintero

Pa escribir a mi madre

Y hace aos no la veo

(In the neighborhood of Triana

there isnt a pen or ink

to write to my mother

and its been years since Ive seen her)



When the songs are sung libre or free form (without any percussion to mark the downbeat, etc.), Ive never really completely understood how the dancers find the rhythm. As it turns outand this is one of the many reasons I love flamenco!there is not one way to interpret where the comps or rhythm begins. There are definitely wrong ways, but there is more than one right way. Because of this, it then becomes almost a game of where you hear the accent, and then the singer has to follow you once you come in. We were practicing in the class with a recorded martinete, so obviously when there is an actual singer, you have to work together and they may not like the way you interpret it, etc. Once you hear where the measure or comps begins, its then a game of playing with where you want to put certain steps, and try to resolve with the letra. SO fun! This is why I love flamenco, because there is always more to learn and in so many ways its just an exploration of different ways to weave in and out of the rhythm with your dancing. 




Here is a video of one of the legends of flamenco singing, Juan Talega singingpor martinete:




 This past weekend, I visited the beautiful beach town of Cdiz. It's about an hour and a half away from Sevilla by bus. Cdiz is nearly completely surrounded by water, and was once a major port city on the Atlantic once the new world was discovered. Apparently it is one of the oldest cities in Europe--it was founded around 1100 b.c.e. by the Phoenicians as a trading outpost. 

The city had a great feel to it--the people were friendly, it was very tranquil, and the streets felt very bright and alive. We wandered the small city center for a short while, got lunch, and then sat on the beach for a few hours--overall a great, relaxing Sunday!



A view from our spot on the beach.



Check out this amazing sand castle/shrine someone built on the beach!



The beach in the center of Cdiz isn't very big, but it's beautiful and not very crowded, unlike some of the other beaches near Sevilla.



For lunch we ate a plate of fried seafood, which is very typical in Andaluca and especially Cdiz. It was delicious!



This is the cathedral and one of the main plazas in Cdiz. 

 

Today in the studio I was
reflecting on how dancers gradually create their own warm ups, their own series of
technique exercise, their own ways to care for their body, and at the end of
the day, their own style of dancing.
Really, its all an amalgamation of things collected from various
teachers and various influences. 



Every morning, shortly after waking
up, I do a series of core exercises that Ive collected from various dance
teachers, physical therapist, even pilates videos. Basically the first thing I do in the morning is related to keeping my core
muscles strong and especially strengthening the muscles that are inherently
weak in my body. 



Once in the studio, I do a half
hour or so warm up that is basically the first half hour of a Simonson modern
dance class (shout out to Laurie DeVito!). Then I move on to my flamenco technique, first hands and
arms, then a little footwork warm up, then marking, then some hardcore feet,
and then I work on whatever dances or steps I happen to be working on. Its amazing how quickly the 2 to 2.5
hours in the studio fly by. 



Sometimes, I dont really want to
be in the studio. Yes, I love to
dance. But getting started in the
morning isnt always easy. Its
much easier to take dance class than to rehearse on ones ownconsciously
thinking about improving your dancing, analyzing every movement, deciding what
looks good on your body and what doesnt.
Its extremely personal, and requires much more concentrationthere isnt
a whole class of people whose wave you can ride. Its easy to
say, I dont feel like working on that today, Ill work on X which Im already
good at. But I cant let myself
do that. 



Once I work through thatforce
myself to do my repetitious technique exercisesthen I feel warmed up and
alive, ready to truly dance. Best
yet, after Ive worked on the steps I need to work on, I let myself just play
around with a step, changing its musicality slightly or playing around with
different gestures to use with the same step. Thats when things really get fun for me. But I cant get to that point without
all the exercises before hand. Its
only through the repetitious stuff that ones dancing really improvesthats
when you make the steps yours, explore the depths of the movements, and dance
more fully. 



I ended up deciding that I only
wanted to take one dance class this month. At first I thought that wouldnt be enough, that I would be
wasting my precious time here if I only took one class. But really, what I dont need are classes; I do need the uber challenge of Andres Marins
class, I need the culture, but mostly I really need to be in the studio on my
own, exploring the depths of the steps and movements I already know. This is the first time in my life Ive been able to focus
just on my dancing, and already in one week I feel improvement (maybe Im just
getting back in to shape from a couple weeks off, but I do note a difference
already in my dancing since Monday).
And that feels great. :) ...then it's a whole other ball game to transfer that to a performance--performing takes a completely different strength.
 







Today I went hiking with my
friend Julie (a fellow Fulbrighter who is studying frogs in Doa Ana National
Park, just outside Sevilla, check out her blog here: http://sevilla2013.wordpress.com/ ) and some of her friends
from the lab she works at. We went
to the Sierra de Aracena, which is a natural park in the region called Huelva,
which is just west of Sevilla. Here's a website with lots of info about it:http://sierradearacena.com/




Here you can see all the different regions of Andaluca.








It was amazing to go hiking
with a bunch of biologiststhey were able to identify every plant species and
the few animals we saw too. It
gave me a different appreciation of nature and hikingusually Im there for the
grand views, but I never realized how much beauty there is in distinguishing
between all the flora and fauna.








For example, this is a cork tree that they make wine bottle corks from.
You can see where they've taken the bark off; they will let it grow back,
and then they will again take the bark. 



The beginning of the trail. Already at
this point I'd been shown different
kinds of berries and some chestnut trees.













































We woke up bright and early and took a bus an hours ride to a town
called Los Marines. From there we
hiked to another small pueblo called Linares, where we ate lunch in their mini
Plaza de Toros, and then we hiked up-hill to Aracena.






Some olive trees. 




I thought this door was cool, it was just on the edge of Linares. 











This is one of the main plazas in Linares. Every way you looked there was a beautiful 
view of whitewashed buildings and the hills in the background. 







All of the porches in Linares had a stone design in front. 
The town's streets slope, except in front of the doors where they are level 
so that people can sit in front and enjoy the cool air at night in the summer, 
and as long as they had to level off the area, they put these beautiful stones in. 







This is one of the main plazas in Aracena. 








We finished off our day at Rufino, a well known bakery that has been around since 1875. 
The place was packed, and we nearly missed the bus (we actually had to sprint to it!) because we were waiting in line to get some sweets. But they were delicious and well worth a sprint! :D




 



Today I went to the Contemporary Art Museum in Sevilla. It's pretty small and there's nothing terribly famous, but I really like a lot of the works that are on display. Also, since the museumwasn't overwhelming, I was able to read all the descriptions of the works, which were very informative and interesting, and often poetic. One read, "The title of these exhibits [Distant Marshes] may help us identify the reason which originates them: the beauty of a unique moment, the true sensation when facing the landscape which only art can help retain."

The museum is housed in what was once a monastery and tile factory. It's really interesting to see how the space has been converted into a museum--sometimes the remnants of the original tile decoration is side by side with the modern art, so you are constantly reminded of the contemporary art's place in history. It's also just a beautiful setting, with large open halls and long hallways, and the original murals and tiles are as much a part of the expositions as the modern works. 

Here are some pictures of my favorite works:













I loved the colors and the mix of geometric and squiggly lines.






I loved how this is framed in this nook between
the old tiles. 



























I thought it was neat to see the old tiles in the monastery's
dining room juxtaposed with this piece...






This is one of the courtyards of the monastery. 







I took a walk through the very large orchard that surrounds the museum
at the end of my visit. It was such a peaceful way to spend a Sunday morning!



 "El mar me ense a bailar"
     --Carmen Amaya (one of the best flamenco dancers ever and foundational figures in flamenco) said, " The sea taught me to dance." My guess would be that in some way she was referring to the unceasing pulse of the waves and the tide.... 


I'm learning a lot about musicality in Andrs Marn's class and cante class with Enrique Soto. In Andrs' class, I'm learning to listen, to sing the rhythm and sounds of the steps, to distinguish the nuances in the tones of the footwork, and overall to give my footwork real musicality rather than just rhythm. There are different tones to even the most basic footwork sounds--and even when you hit the floor lightly, you have to look for a clear and profound sound. Within that, I am learning to play more with silence and the spaces between the sounds. 

I'm also learning to singratherthan to count, and most importantly to let the pulse carry me, rather than wait to jump on top of the pulse--if that makes any sense. It's something obvious that I've been told over and over, but at the end of the day it does no good to understand the theory of a steady pulse if you don't feel it. That seems to be the key for me, to let go of my thinking and over-thinking while I'm dancing and just do the steps--when I trust myself enough to do that, the pulse does carry me through, and I surprise myself at what I'm able to do. Even in cante class, when I just trust myself and don't wait to sing the words, and instead let the pulse carry me, I get the melody right. (Although my tonality in singing is a whole other ball game, uf!). 

This is something I've always struggled with. I have always been able to pick up steps incredibly fast; I remember the mechanics of a step (i.e. the actual movements, what combination of footwork patterns, etc.) but I struggle with remembering the sounds and just doing the step in rhythm. I think that's because I simply don't listen or let myself feel the pulse. Even when you are dancing in silence there is always a pulse--some of the most captivating pieces of a dance occur when it is just the dancer in silence, and as an audience member you sense there is a pulse, but can't put your finger on it because of the gaps of silence and the lack of a beat. But the pulse is always there, otherwise it would just be sounds and chaos, and not art. (Not that chaos doesn't have a place in art too...)

This all goes back to my earlier post 'revelations por martinete.' In finding the beginning of the musical measure in the martinete when sung a palo seco, you have to find the pulse, and then choose where you want the measure to begin, depending on where you hear the accents and crescendos in the singer's interpretation. So it all seems to come down to the pulse before anything else. Often as dancers, especially foreigners to flamenco, we are obsessed with making sure everything starts and end perfectly and is cuadradoor evenly measured, and we forget about the pulse, which I'm beginning to think is more important. If every step were perfectly square and even, things would get boring. It's the game of weaving in and out of the pulse that is a challenge but also gives freedom to break some rules. And the pulse can change (slow down, speed up, etc...) but it has to be present. 

I'm sure there are technical musical theory terms for the pulse and the music's dependence on the pulse, but I don't know them. 



I think Israel Galvn is a good example of this, especially in his most recent show, "Solo," where he isn't accompanied by any musicians. Here is a clip from "Solo"




In a different way, I think Roco Molina carries the pulse in all of her dancing in an incredible way. In this video, the pulse seems to truly carry her, and she never stops until the pulse stops--it's as if she's locked in to it. I wish the clip were higher quality, but I loved this piece when I saw it in person (it almost made me cry), and I'm starting to realize now why I love it so much:




 Cucarachas!....Ufffy!

We had a visitor this evening in our apartment. 

I walked into the kitchen and lo and behold there was a very large thing moving some very, very, very long antennae....possibly the biggest antennae I've EVER seen....

"Um, Jani?!....there's a cockroach..."

"Is it big?"

"Yeaaaaah.....

Let's just say some screaming was soon to follow, then a bit of a stand off, and some running....but we won thanks to Jani and Michael....







It didn't stand a chance!....I hope this serves as a warning to future critters....

We've also decided to be much cleaner...that should help....



 







Photo from "Por casualidad" in the Alameda de Hrcules on November 1. Photo from Mes de Danza. 





I saw Chlo Brul and Marco Vargas perform yesterday
outside in a Plaza in the center of Sevilla as part of Dance Month in Sevilla. Unlike their full-length show during
the Bienal, which I wrote about in an entry in September, I was enraptured with
their performance yesterday. The piece
lasted about 30 minutes and varied from more contemporary dance infused
flamenco to sections of traditional flamenco footwork. Overall I felt that they told the story
of their relationshipno, there was no narrative, but there was a dynamic give
and take that never became repetitive. They danced to a recorded drumbeat, in silence, and to the
live voice of a flamenco singer. 




This is the Alameda de Hercules where the performance was. 
They were right in front of the two columns.




So why did this work for me and their full show didnt? Well, first off I think the length and
the location worked to their favor.
There was no time for repetition that could become boring, and the fact
that the audience was so close made us become a part of the show rather than outsiders looking in on a private world. In various moments, each dancer would
turn towards the crowd so that instead of just a give and take between the two
of them, there was also a relationship of give and take that formed between the
audience and the performers. The
energy of the crowd that encircled them and the cheers and jaleo obviously gave them instant inspiration.



Brul and Vargas have done several outdoor performances around Spain in the last few years, and their work seems to come across very well in these situations. Their energy when they are outside of a theater space is powerful and enticing. I hope to see them perform again sometime outdoors. 




 

Last week in class, I was extremely frustrated. I just wasnt understanding the steps;
for some reason the sounds, and even the mechanics jus werent sticking in my
body or my ears or my brain. I
think I was just tired and needed to rest, to figure out what I needed, to
believe in myself, to remember why Im here. 



On Monday, class went amazingly well. We ran through everything weve done so
far since classes started October 1st. I have been practicing all the steps every single day in the
studio in the mornings, and it paid off.
The steps were mine. Yes,
there were a few hiccups here and there, but I own those steps. I truly danced them.



How does one come to own a flamenco step and what exactly
do I mean by that? First off, you
have to be able to do the step in comps
(in rhythm) otherwise it really means nothing. You also have to be able to do it the way the teacher taught
it; the way the step is meant to be with the body and the intention. Aha! Theres that key wordintention. 



To own a step, you have to understand the intention behind
itthe musical intentions, the gestural intentions, and the whole big picture
intention. I think you can alter a
step to suit your body and who you are without altering the intention or the
musicality of the step.
Eventually, of course, or at least outside of that teachers class you
can play with the step all you want and change it until it hardly resembles
what it came from. If a step doesnt have a clear purpose or meaning (and thats
not to say it is something that can be translated into words, because it cannot
be, thats why its dance) then you dont really understand the step to begin
to make it your own. 



Thats really only the beginning of the process. You have to do a step over and over and
over and over again with intention, exploring its subtleties and nuances, and
exploring your interpretation of it before it becomes yours. Connected to this idea is not dancing academically. Both Andrs and Rosario often tell
their classes, and me included, that something is too academic. Basically, its exactly and precisely
right as far as the technique goes, but it has no essence, no personality, no
profundity, no zestthe step hasnt been "owned" yet by the dancer. That doesnt mean you throw technique out the window, in fact
quite the opposite. You expand you
technique and your capacity to enrich the movements with your body. In other words you dont limit yourself
to one stagnant technique. (I hope
this is making some sense)

For now I think owning a step means you understand it inside and out, and you also dance it in such a way that no one else can execute it exactly the same without looking like an imitator. 



All in all, I danced well in class on Monday because I didnt care what
Andrs or anyone thought of my dancing.
I just danced. So of course
Andrs noticed I was dancing well.
Now, I have to do that again tomorrow, and then even more so the next
day.Yes, I have some not so great days
where I want to cry at the end of class.
But because I work through those days, because I get in the studio every morning and figure out the steps and make them mine, I have days like today where I
can see my progress, where I overcome obstacles and eventually dance. I guess its all a process.


 


This past Tuesday, I performed at T de Triana, a restaurant on the famous Calle Betis in Triana.  It's a wonderful space where young dancers have the opportunity to perform...



My friend Julie caught the beginning of my solo on video :)



It had been two months since I had last performed, and I really had an urge to perform. I love to dance, in any way, shape, or form, but I also needto perform. There's something about expressing myself through dance to a group of people that I cannot survive without. I think live performance is one of the most intimate and human moments people can experience--both as an audience member and as a performer. I truly believe it is a necessity, not necessarily in a formal show, but even just getting up and dancing/singing/whatever among friends.

I danced a sole por bulerias on Tuesday. I was quite nervous, since this was the first time I had performed in Spain, the first time I hadworkedwith these musicians, the first time many of my friends here would see me perform, and there are very knowledgeable and experienced flamencos in the audience. I wanted to dance my best, but also to have fun. The dance was good, although not perfect, but I enjoyed myself very much. Once I got to the tapadopart of the dance--halfwaythroughwhen there is no music but just rhythm and the structure was much less set, I really began to have fun and to be myself. To feel comfortable enough onstage and with your dancing to just do what you want in the moment is not as easy as it looks, and it's taken me years of dancing to get to that point. 



This is the beginning of my tapado section--you can see I'm having a good time ;) 
This also gives an idea of the set-up of the restaurant. 


Performing is also a necessary part of the learning process. You don't really know what you can and cannot do, what you really need to work on until you get on stage. It's also hard to have the initiative to really put a dance together if you don't have a performance date booked ahead of time. Up until the performance, I was working very hard in the studio putting together my sole por bulerias, and now that I've performed, I know what I need to be working on even more in the studio. 



On a side note, my mom made my awesome flamenco skirt. 
It has a matching top too, but I went with black for a Halloween themed look... :P


Overall I was happy with the performance, and I had a wonderful night out afterward. I went to a bar that has live music of Sevillanas and Rumbas with some friends, so we danced several coplas of Sevillanas, and then Jesus and I danced salsa to the flamenco rumbas. After that, we headed to La Carbonera (another flamenco bar) where my friend Antonio, a jazz pianist and teacher at the music conservatory here, jammed out with a violinist from Amsterdam and a flamenco guitarist and singer. It was amazing--I've never seen anyone accompany flamenco singing so well on the piano. 

Once that bar closed, a smaller group of us decided to sit on a bench under a tree in a small plaza nearby, playing, singing, and dancing. It was cold, but not too bad. After a little while there, it started to rain, but somehow, under that tree we were in a little bubble where we were completely dry and the rain seemed to be falling in a circle around us. It was ridiculously romantic and beautiful, and a wonderful way to spend election night--way better than anxiously staring at a TV. It's nights like those that I will never forget...Ol Sevilla!



From left to right: Maya (fellow Fulbrighter studying the siesta), Julie (fellow Fulbrighter studying frogs at Doana National Park, Me, Ellen (Studying art history with a grant from USC), and Katie (fellow Fulbrighter studying chemistry), and a couple of their friends.... It was so nice to have many supporters in the audience. :)
The fin de fiesta at the end was great--lots of people got up and danced a patada or short dance. Yay!

 

Betis



Julie and I in our new Betis scarves at the game. 


Friday night I went to my first real football game. And no, I don't mean the American version--I still have yet to go to a NFL game, and it will likely stay that way for a long time; and American soccer doesn't really count. Last night, I saw Real Betis play Granada. Real Betis is one of two teams in Sevilla. Generally, it's the team of the working class, and Sevilla F.C. is the yuppy, rich people's team, so even though I used to live right near the Sevilla stadium, I think I prefer Betis. 



The outside of the stadium.

We got to the game about ten minutes in, and we couldn't find our seats, because basically as one Spaniard explained to me, you sit wherever you want. You can only get in to a limited section of the stands based on where your ticket actually is, but once there, it seems people sit wherever they want, so it's a good thing they have the sections closed off at least. We picked two seats that weren't covered in sunflower seed shells. The stadium was waaaaaay bigger than I had expected and it was pretty full--the attendance was about 37,000. Which is a lot, considering Sevilla's population is only 700,000. 




The Betis logo.




Although I'm not a soccer fan, I loved how not commercialized the whole thing is, unlike American sports. There are a few advertisements in the stadium, but there are no shopping malls, no overpriced huge concession stands, and no ridiculously overpriced team apparel (I bought an official Betis scarf for 5 euros). It's all about the game. When a team scores, everyone goes wild. When they almost score, there's a collective holding of breath, and then a collective sigh. The cheering and chanting doesn't seem to stop, except at half time, when everyone takes out theirbocadillos or sandwiches of ham or sausage they've wrapped in tinfoil. It's also pretty typically Andalusian in the amount of curse words that are shouted--there is really no such thing as profanity in Andaluca because it is used everywhere all the time. You can't walk down the street for more than a minute without hearing someone shout "Coo!" (and you can just google that if you want to know what it means....)

Anyways, the game was quite exciting--Granada scored early on, then Betis tied things up and the momentum after that really took off. Unfortunately, towards the end of the game Granada scored. But I had a great time and would definitely go to another game. 



Rafael Campallo






On Thursday night, I saw Rafael Campallo perform. I've seen him several times before, mostly at the Festival in Albuquerque. He dances fairly traditionally, but what makes him a really great dancer is that he makes you feel like you're just hanging out with him in his living room. He just has fun with his dancing and seems completely comfortable on stage. At one point, he was executing a complicated escobilla or footwork section and rolling up his sleeves at the same time; if you looked just at his upper body, you'd never know his feet were making such intricate rhythms because he was so calm, casual and present.  

The best part of the show wasdefinitelywhen Campallo danced por tangos. He improvised this section, and the interplay between him and singer Jos Valencia was incredible. They both were just having fun choosing when to sing, when to dance, how to respond to one another, etc. I felt like Campallo was a just a kid having fun on a playground after school with some friends. Again, that relaxed nature is what makes him an exceptional dancer. Campallo ended the show with a solo por alegrias, another upbeat rhythm where his enjoyment in dancing also clearly came through. It's hard not to enjoy watching him when you can see how much fun he is having on stage. 



And look, even Rafael Campallo is a Betis fan! ;P




Ritz it up!

So it turns out I may be slightly homesick, and it comes out in the strangest ways--I don't really feel homesick; yes there are many things, people, and places I miss, but I'm so happy to be here in Sevilla doing what I love that I haven't really felt homesick. I've got both Spanish and American friends here, and I can focus myself entirely on flamenco which is all I can ask for in life. But I went for a walk through the Corte Ingls grocery store (the Corte Ingles is basically like Macy's but with a grocery store too) and ended up getting super excited because they had Ritz crackers and Quaker oats. So although I already had a box of oatmeal at home, I bought the oats, and the crackers, and some horseradish (that was supposed to be "picante" (spicy) but was incredibly flavorless and bland, of course). So I had a snack of Ritz crackers with chestnut marmalade, which was amazing and I highly recommend that combination, also try it with some Manchego cheese too....





I think that was a sign though that I do miss a lot of things back in the states. Not just silly things like that, but people and places. 

 



I could write a long blog about all the things I'm thankful for, and there are a ton. But instead, I'll let the pictures speak for themselves......

I hosted a potluck Thanksgiving dinner in my apartment on Saturday, and I couldn't have asked for a better way to celebrate this American holiday :)  A big thank you to Lauren, Linda, Paco, Ellen, Katie, and Julie, I had a wonderful time with you all. One of my favorite Thanksgivings :)




No such thing as canned pumpkin in Spain....







Possibly the ugliest pumpkin pie I've ever made, but also the most delicious...it's what's on the inside that counts :)and the toasted pumpkin seeds...







Table setting, courtesy of my local Chino shop. 




Paper turkey out of a toilet paper roll!










Hanging leaves







Wall decor with glitter :)  It reads Keep Calm and Give Thanks










Pull apart rolls, they turned out really well :)






















The inside of the rolls. I'm not going to lie, I'm pretty proud of how they turned out :)




One of the roasted turkey breasts.




Partially devoured....




I'd say we did pretty well.....we were all pretty stuffed.




Good times..... :P




Apple crisp




devoured




Alicia the turkey with us in the background :) 







No Thanksgiving is complete without card games






Happiness :) is what I feel right now. I love Thanksgiving and the wonderful people I got to celebrate with! :D In flamenco, there are many different rhythms, known as palos. Within each palo, there can be many variations. This is knowledge that I have found to be lacking in the United States, and something that can really only be understood from being in Spain and learning from artists who understand on a profound level the minute differences between different variations of the same palo. Often these small details are defined by the region from which the variation of the palo comes. For example, there are bulerias de Sevilla, de Jerez, de Utrera, de Lebrija, de Cdiz, etc. It's not so much the lyrics of the songs that change between variations, but the style in which they are sung and slight differences in the accentuation of the compsor rhythm. It's EXTREMELY important to be able to differentiate between the styles, because a step that works well for one palojust won't work with another, which is why listening is so important. You have to understand the music you are dancing to, rather than try and put dance steps on top of music. 

Here is a map of Andaluca so you can see the different cities and regions. This map has the three "triangles" of flamenco singing highlighted. 




On a side note, each city and region is/was also defined by the type of work that the economy was based on. For example, Jerez has the sherry wineries, whereas Utrera is more agriculturally based, and Cdiz is a sea port and mercantile city.

This is why, in my journey here, I am not looking for pasosor steps. Yes, I sure could use more steps, but not movements that I want to throw in to whatever dance or rhythm. What I am searching for is an understanding of the rhythms, the songs, an ability to listen better, to carry the comps better, to interpret the songs and music justly. These nuances make flamenco what it is, and if flamenco loses these nuances, it loses so much of its depth. 

Unfortunately, in my experience in the U.S. there is often no differentiation within the same palo. Bulerias is bulerias. If you want to dance por bulerias, that's it, you tell the musicians to play por bulerias. The slight variations that exist between different styles of bulerias has been lost when flamenco is/was transplanted abroad, and I think in some ways that's because abroad there are no regional divisions of flamenco. I'm not saying there aren't people in the U.S. that have this knowledge, but they are few and far between, and I have never learned any of the distinctions between different styles of the same paloin the U.S. I know that differences exist, but have no way to know what they are or why. That knowledge is not common knowledge outside Spain like it is in Spain. This is why I'm taking canteclass here, and why I am studying with teachers who explain these differences. (Today in Manuela Ros' class we had a long discussion about the differences between different kinds of buleras. Which then led to a discussion about how flamenco is losing something because nowadays it's all about making money, rather than working your job all day, suffering, and then singing/dancing about it at the end of the day.)

In Andrs Marn's class I've been learning a bulerias de Jerez. There are not only certain gestures and styles that are distinct from other bulerias, but even the quantity of desplantes (a specific step)that are used in the dance help define this style. It also has to be counted more in 6's than in 12's, since there are many half measures that the dancer/singer/guitarist can use.

Here's some bulerias de Jerez:


In Manuela's class, we've been learning a bulerias de Utrera, which is not only slower and less non-stop in the dancing, but doesn't really seem to use what I used to think of as the traditional desplantein bulerias at all. The hand-clapping pattern that is used is also different, which gives the whole air of the dance an entirely different feel. 

Here's some Bulerias de Utrera:


There are many books that explain the differences between the styles within palos, but I think there's really no way to understand it except through oral transmission. Reading the theory helps you understand "in theory" the distinctions, but that doesn't mean you can dance and carry out those differences in actuality. What I do need to do though which will help me tremendously, is listen to more of the old singers, who "suckled" a specific style and helped define it wihtout ever mixing it with other styles. 

It's amazing how far I've come in my understanding of flamenco music, but I have SO MUCH further to go. I remember the first time I listened to some of the old singers; I couldn't even understand the words they were singing, much less hear the differences between different palos, or even within the same palo. Learning how to listen is an art in and of itself. 

Here's some bulerias de Cdiz:


And a video of Aurora Vargas singing and dancing por buleras. Manuela Ros said Aurora is her favorite dancer por buleras de Sevilla, even though she is technically a singer and not a dancer. 

 Sometimes I meet someone here in Sevilla with such a thick Andalusian accent, I can't understand a word that comes out of their mouth. Sometimes I have to ask my friend Rubn here to repeat himself several times before I have any idea of what he just said (I'm pretty sure he thinks I'm deaf or something, or always in wonderland)....When I was studying abroad, I had a professor with such a thick accent that my American friend and I would just stare at each other in complete confusion whenever he would start listing off the names of Medieval authors that we'd never heard before (at least when he spoke about other topics we could intuit some of what he said....)

Large parts of words are often slurred together, lisped, or just left out. For example, the title of the following video series is Curso Dandalu. "Dandalu" is what "de Andaluz" sounds like when you say it with an Andalusian accent. And the best part is, many Spaniards actually write words the way they sound in informal emails/notes/text messages. All words that end in "ado" don't really have the d sound, so people just write and say "ao." For example "cuidado" (careful) is written and pronounced "cuidao." The letter s and z at the end of words is virtually absent too.

There's also differences between cities. My friend Carmen from a pueblo near Sevilla called Mairena was telling me about an accent in a pueblo near Mlaga. Apparently they say all their z and s sounds like h's and even she couldn't understand when she spoke with someone from that pueblo. 

Here in Andalusia they also speak so forcefully sometimes it sounds like they're always arguing with each other even when they aren't. And curse words are abundant. 

The vosotros form of the verb is sort of the equivalent of "y'all"--it's an informal third person plural--and Andalusia is basically the only place where it is used in the world. What I love though, is that people often mix the regular third person plural (ustedes) with the vosotros form, so you might have a sentence like, "Ustedes vais al cine?" (Are y'all going to the movies?) Technically this sentence in Spanish is grammatically incorrect--it uses the wrong verb form for the subject. But in Andalusia, it's totally correct, or at least all the Andalusians and I think it's correct. ;)

So for those of you who speak Spanish, or have been to Andalusia, here's some fun videos parodying the Andalusian way of speaking.....

Here's the first video in the series, if you're interested in more here's a link to the series' page:
http://www.youtube.com/user/calichefilms



 

Give him alms, lady,
since there is nothing in life 
likethe sorrow of being blind
in Granada. 


This past weekend I went to Granada. Wow. There are no words, no photos, nothing--except maybe some of Lorca's poetry--that can possibly capture the beauty, mystery, and enchantment of Granada, and there is no way to express the sensations of standing in the Alhambra or wandering the winding uphill alleys in the Albaicn neighborhood. 

It was basically a dream come true for me to finally go to the Alhambra and to Granada. In high school I was always checking out a big coffee table book with photos of the Alhambra and I've read and heard so much about Granada through flamenco to finally go there was astounding. 

Granada was the last Muslim stronghold in Spain, conquered in 1492 by the Catholic monarchs Ferndinand and Isabel. It has a rich history that includes Jews, Muslims, Christians, Africans. 

Federico Garca Lorca is from a small pueblo on the edge of Granada, and he is the most flamenco poet to have ever lived. Many of his poems are the lyrics of flamenco songs, and he also wrote essays about flamenco and is responsible for helping to create one of the first flamenco singing competitions, which he did in order to preserve the purity of the art form. 




This is a view from one of the towers of the Alhambra. It looks down on the river Darro and the Paseo de los Tristes, which has that namebecauseit was the walkway to the cemetery. I thought looking at the roofs in Paris was amazing,
but that was nothing compared to the view of the Albayzn from the Alhambra. I wish I could transmit the sense of beauty and tranquility and sheer awe of the view. 



A view from one tower of the Alhambra
to another. 




This is one of the gates to the city. 





The Alhambra at night. Magnificent. 





It was drizzling ever so slightly for much of the day on Saturday in Granada, but it gave the city an even more serene and mysterious quality. Here's a poem by Lorca that I think transmits the feelings I had while discovering the city on a grey day with the slightest rain drops (Iunfortunatelycan't find an english translation):


LLUVIALa lluvia tiene un vago secreto de ternura,algo de soolencia resignada y amable,una msica humilde se despierta con ellaque hace vibrar el alma dormida del paisaje.Es un besar azul que recibe la Tierra,el mito primitivo que vuelve a realizarse.El contacto ya fro de cielo y tierra viejoscon una mansedumbre de atardecer constante.Es la aurora del fruto. La que nos trae las floresy nos unge de espritu santo de los mares.La que derrama vida sobre las sementerasy en el alma tristeza de lo que no se sabe.La nostalgia terrible de una vida perdida,el fatal sentimiento de haber nacido tarde,o la ilusin inquieta de un maana imposiblecon la inquietud cercana del color de la carne.El amor se despierta en el gris de su ritmo,nuestro cielo interior tiene un triunfo de sangre,pero nuestro optimismo se convierte en tristezaal contemplar las gotas muertas en los cristales.Y son las gotas: ojos de infinito que miranal infinito blanco que les sirvi de madre.Cada gota de lluvia tiembla en el cristal turbioy le dejan divinas heridas de diamante.Son poetas del agua que han visto y que meditanlo que la muchedumbre de los ros no sabe.Oh lluvia silenciosa, sin tormentas ni vientos,lluvia mansa y serena de esquila y luz suave,lluvia buena y pacifica que eres la verdadera,la que llorosa y triste sobre las cosas caes!Oh lluvia franciscana que llevas a tus gotasalmas de fuentes claras y humildes manantiales!Cuando sobre los campos desciendes lentamentelas rosas de mi pecho con tus sonidos abres.El canto primitivo que dices al silencioy la historia sonora que cuentas al ramajelos comenta llorando mi corazn desiertoen un negro y profundo pentagrama sin clave.Mi alma tiene tristeza de la lluvia serena,tristeza resignada de cosa irrealizable,tengo en el horizonte un lucero encendidoy el corazn me impide que corra a contemplarte.Oh lluvia silenciosa que los rboles amany eres sobre el piano dulzura emocionante;das al alma las mismas nieblas y resonanciasque pones en el alma dormida del paisaje!

Court of the Lions in the Alhambra.





Inside one of the rooms of the Alhmabra. I wish this picture could capture the sense of tranquility and majesty that exists when you are there in person. Especially with the light rain falling, it was truly serene. 





Check out the detail on this ceiling of the Alhambra. So intricate. 











This looks like Morocco, right? It's a market in Granada, 
with lots of goods imported from Morocco. 



One of the many small alleys in the Albayzn,
the neighborhood that faces theAlhambra
on the hillside and isreminiscentof Morocco.
We spent a fair amount of time wandering
the pathways of the Albayzn, and my calves
were definitely sore to remember it the next day.





The front of the cathedral. I thought the Cathedral wasmagnificent--I couldn't take photos of the inside, but was in awe; although it's a good thing I went before the Alhambra, because in comparison, it's not really all that spectacular. 





This is the beginning of the gorgeous walkway towards the Alhambra. It's a steep uphill climb that reminded me of Prospect park with all its greenery and the changing colors of the foliage. There are two waterfalls that run along both sides of the walkway. 



This is the gate to the Alhambra. There is a handinscribed on the top of the archway and a key on the innerarch. There are many legends regarding the two symbols, one beingthat when the hand and the key touch (i.e. when the Alhambra falls)it will be the end of the world.




This is the Palace of Carlos V, it's builtin the middle of the Alhambra complex.





This would be the view of the Sierra Nevada (the snow covered peak), but the clouds were covering it..



A view of the hillsideand the wall of Nazar. 




Jos Fernandez and me enjoying a drink in the Albayzn. I knowJos from the flamenco festivals in Albuquerque and he sang forperformances I was in on several occasions. It was strange but  wonderful to hangout with him in his town finally! He's an amazing singer and quite a character. We enjoyed eating snails together(He made me try them for the first time and they're delicious!) and drinkinga couple of cruzcampos, then of course some singing and dancing.  :D




A view of the Alhambra from the hillside with some cactai. 



A view of the hillside overlooking Granada. 



Would you like to live in a city
where you never have to pay for
food? Then Granada is the place to be!
When you buy a drink, usually for about
2 euros, you get a tapa free! And New Yorkers
are not the only bagel makers, many little
sandwiches have basically a bagel
as the bread!














 When I first got to Sevilla, and people saw me dance at parties or wherever, they often were shocked to learn I'm American. How on earth could an American learn to dance flamenco? And with such 'aire.' A group of people nicknamed me the 'gitana de nueva york.' It was fun at first. It got me plenty of free drinks. Great. But really, being the sideshow as an American who really looks flamenco when she dances has worn off. Let's get over it and move on. Let's look deeper at the art, the art form, the content that is being expressed. 

Anyone can dance flamenco if they apply themselves. Really, anyone. Beyond learning the steps and music, if someone wants to express themselves and dances from the inside out, they can be 'flamenco.' Music and dance are universal, even music/dance forms that were born in a specific country/culture. So let's stop looking at dancers as someethnicity dancing flamenco, and just look at them as a flamenco dancer, a person, an artist. They either transmit something to you, or they don't. You enjoy their dancing and like their aesthetic, or you don't. Their country of origin shouldn't come into the picture if they have taken the time to truly study and understand the culture from which it was born, and then found their own way within that. Where someone is from shouldn't make them a better dancer or a worse dancer. 

I'm definitely not the first American or foreigner to experience this. Even for very successful dancers of origins other than Spain, it is still an uphill battle for them. I have a friend who will be dancing at the Festival de Jerez (one of the biggest and most prestigious festivals in spain) and she also won a big competition here earlier this year, and still it's a struggle for her to be seen as a flamenco dancer, and not an American flamenco dancer. 

I don't feel foreign to flamenco; it's the language I've chosen, or that chose me, to express myself. 

Flamenco has always had this ethnicity struggle; originally it was the debate about whether or not a non-gypsy could really dance flamenco. Now it's whether or not a Spaniard or non-Spaniard can dance, and yet there still exists that first camp of thought that only the gypsies know how to dance. But flamenco is no longer something that can be learned solely in a living room. It is a complicated art form that needs to be studied. Even the Farruco's, who grow up surrounded by flamenco study the technique, internalize it, personalize it. Yes they have their own technique and style of dancing, but it's not something they were born with; they studied andcontinueto study. Yes, you have to 'live' flamenco in the sense that you need to understand the culture that gave birth to it and continues to nurture it--but nowadays, there are many influences, foreign and local, that nurture flamenco. 

They key I think, is not to imitate. To understand the art form, and then use it as a means to express oneself. A dancer who copies another dancer's movements without understanding the intention behind the step cannot transmit or express. That means the understanding of the art cannot be skin deep, it has to be searched for from within. 

And on that note I would also like to share the following video from Alonzo King, who is acontemporaryballet choreographer. He speaks about imitation and the creative process in this interview, and I think it applies wholeheartedly to flamenco and all arts.
(there's no way to embed the video, so please copy and paste the link)

http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=WlIwn3SLTG0 



The more and more I do in Spain, the harder it seems to become to write about it all....So here's a little bit of what I've been up to:







Look at all that beautiful ham and cheese!


Christmas Eve Dinner (Nochebuena):


I went to my friend's house and ate and sang and danced until about 4am. :D






Christmas Day I headed to Carlos Heredia's house for some more dancing and singing and eating.


Nothing better than a fire and some flamenco!






I headed to Madrid a couple weeks ago to put together a piece with fellow Fulbrighter and tap dancer Alexander MacDonald that will be performed in Germany at the Fulbright Seminar there. I don't want to post the video so as not to spoil anything ;) ...but I'm pretty happy with what we put together, it's an interesting dialogue between flamenco and tap. 




Here we are after rehearsal in Madrid.

My new year's resolution has been to travel more around Andaluca. Last weekend I went to Carmona, which is just outside Sevilla, and is one of the oldest urban sites in Europe. 




A Phoenician vase.




A picture of the menu of various sweets you can order from the Convent of Santa Clara, which is particularly famous for its yemas--sweets made with egg yolks. 






A photo of the Roman necropolis in Carmona. So cool!










My impatience and Sevici:









Sevici is a bike system that I use to get around in Sevilla. Basically, you buy a year long pass for about 30 euros, and you can take out a bike from any Sevici station around the city, and as long as you return it within half an hour it's free. After that I think it's about a euro an hour. A few weeks ago, I go to take out a bike, and the screen says I have a debt of fifty something euros! I couldn't believe this--I *almost* always make sure the bike is parked well (it beeps twice if it is after you return it). 

For several days, I called, Sevici, I went to the Sevici office, I sent email requests to Sevici, and they said a technician would go to the station I returned the bike to and see if it was my error or their error. And they said that would take one day. Yeah, well, after about a week and a half with no bike and no response, I decided I would pay the stupid debt, because I really need a bike. Well, of course a few hours after I decided to do that, I get an email saying that the debt was an error of Sevici's and they removed the debt. So then I had a useless 50 euro credit on my account. Argh! I simply don't have patience like the Spaniards, but I'm getting better.....Anyways, lucky for me Sevici took the 50 euro credit off and transferred the money to my bank account....but really, I need a little more patience to live here. 







And last but not least, what I've been doing with most of my time:







I've been reading this book. But not just reading it. I'm looking up everything in it I don't know, every name that is mentioned and not explained. I listen to every singer and song that is mentioned (hooray for Spotify!) This is a book that I have been meaning to read for a long time, and I think I just wasn't quite ready to read it. The author, ngel lvarez Caballero, assumes the reader already knows a significant amount about the cante, and I am finally to the point where I know enough to really delve into this book which is a dense history of flamenco singing. The history of the cante is so essential to understanding flamenco; everything comes from the cante. I think that as a flamenco, it's essential that I have a deep understanding of the singing, since that is the base for the dancing. 



And I've been listening. Repetition seems to be the key to everything. Listening to a song once just doesn't cut it. I listen over and over to whatever song I happen to be studying. It's the same in dancing--it's only once you've repeated something over and over with consciousness and awareness that you are able to understand and learn. And I have a LOT to learn about flamenco. The more I learn, the more I realize I lack, which inspires me to study even more. Flamenco is so profound, full of so many corners to discover and decode! 


 
Nor am I referring to a snack food....








Fandangos Flamencos

I used to think fandangoswas a lesser rhythm in flamenco since I preferred the heavier paloslike seguiriya and sole. But I've come to love fandangos, and it is a rhythm with many variations, and when sung by a great singer, it can be a deep and profound song, but it's taken me a while to realize the depth of fandangos, and I've only just begun....



"gitanos bailando fandangos"http://www.flamencoentusmanos.es/es/cursos-de-guitarra-online-fandango-instrumental.html



The first time I danced fandangos was at a flamenco fashion show/performance at the Santa Fe folk art museum. At the time I was a soloist with Alma Flamenca, and Eva Encinias was our cantaora that day. Each of us had on a different dress, and came out and danced a short piece to a different palo. I was next up, and sheannouncedthe next dancer would be dancing porfandangos. I'd never danced fandangos before. Ever. The children's company at the National Institute of Flamenco had a choreography por fandangosthat I had seen several times, but I didn't know the structure or much about the dance at all.But I walked on stage and danced, the music carried me into the end of the dance where it finished por bulerias.

The second time I performed por fandangoswasn't so different. I was working in New York, and the guitarist I was working with regularly wanted me to perform a fandango, but I'd still never learned a one. I kept saying I'd choreograph one. But mostly I was putting it off; I couldn't find any videos of dances and I still didn't know the structure. But one day he decided I was just going to have to dance fandangos, so I did. I improvised the whole thing....it didn't turn out too bad. I started dancing fandangos regularly, and grew to like it. 

When fandangos is sung well, it can be a cante grande, which means it is one of the more solemn genres. However, many people consider that it is not the palo, but the singer who makes a song grande or chico. A cante chicois the genre of flamenco that is lighter and does not require a grand voice. As Rafael Belmonte Garca explained in a series of lectures at the University of Sevilla in 1969,"...tampoco hay cante grande ni cante chico, porque un cante grande en la voz de un cantaor chico nunca ser cante grande, y un cante chico en la voz de un cantaor grande siempre ser cante grande." (there is no such thing as cante grande or cante chico, because a grand song in the voice of a lesser singer will never be a grand song, and a light-hearted song in the voice of a grand singer will always be cante grande). 

Paco Toronjo is known as a master of fandangos. In my opinion his fandangos are cantes grandes. Here is a video of him singing:




A little more about the history of fandangos:

ngel lvarez Caballero writes that it is generally accepted that fandangos are arabic in origin, and spread throughout all of the Iberian Peninsula. These moorish fandangos eventually evolved into many of the folk dances throughout Spain (for those of you who don't know, Spain is home to many varieties of folk music other than flamenco, including the jota, boleros, mueiras, among others.) The overall flamenco genre of fandangos encompasses a whole variety of rhtyms, and regional variations within those. Take a look at this flamenco tree, and how much of it branches from fandangos:






Unfortunately I have no idea what book this came from to cite it, I've had it saved on my computer forever....





 



This weekend I went to SIMOF ( Salon Internacional de Moda Flamenca). These aren't flamenco dresses that flamenco dancers wear, but rather the dresses that Sevillan women wear the week of the Spring Feria. At SIMOF, the designers showcase their line of dresses for the year. If you're a well-off Sevillana, you might buy a new dress every year or every other year! (These aren't cheap, we're talking hundreds to thousands of euros). I'd say the average woman has one or two dresses--let's be honest, they might come out with new dresses every year, but the styles are always more or less the same--lots of ruffles!!!

Even though these are different than what bailaoraswear to dance in,I've looked at the photos from SIMOF every year to get inspiration for designing the dresses I dance in. As many of you know, my mom and I design my dresses together, and then she skillfully carries out the designs--which is no easy feat! 

Needless to say, it was pretty exciting to be at SIMOF in person and not looking at the photos of the fashion shows the day after they happen. So, here's some photos from the exposition hall (most designers don't let you take photos, but I managed to get in enough):



Buttons and ruffles!




For your hair!




Some awesome earrings....




These are "eco" feria dresses made from recycled materials and fabric. Very cool!




Love this dress!




Great colors




Hand embroidered shawl.




Polka dots!!!!!




Daisies....

















Too many earring to count!









I also went to one runway show, Rosalia Zahno and Encarnacin Sol. My friend Ellen and I bought the ticket at random, but loved it. It wasn't just traditional feria dresses, but lots of outrageous and risque feria dresses, with the theme of fairy tales running throughout the show. These aren't dresses that would be worn at the actual Feria--they are a bit too outrageous, but it made for a great fashion show. The designers told a story on the catwalk, which was pretty cool and unexpected. Here's some photos:




The catwalk...





Apparently this is supposed to be Alice in Wonderland...like I said--risque.




Little Red Riding Hood




Robin Hood. I want this dress. If I were to buy a Feria dress, this would be the one!




One of the evil step sisters of Cinderella.




Pirate Feria dress!




This is supposed to be the white rabbit from Alice in Wonderland. Again, risque...




Taking the Feria dress to extremes....























 






Alcal de Guadaira is a town just outside of Sevilla. I've been wanting to go there since the fall, when I learned to sing a specific song in flamenco from there, the Sole de Alcal. There are many different types of soleares;many different cities and towns in Andaluca developed their own versions of the sole. La Andonda is recorded to be the first person to sing por solearesin the neighborhood where I live now, Triana. Although soleares may have been sung before her, she is at the least the person to popularize it. Her lover, El Fillo, would also be known for singing soleares.His nephew, Toms el Nitri, then brought the soleto Alcal when he stayed with the Talega family for a few years. Within that family, Joaqun el de la Paula would create a unique style of singing the sole, therefore creating the style known as thesole de Alcal. 



This trip is the first time in a while I'd traveled alone, and it was nice to get out of Sevilla and reflect and think alone, which I suppose is an ironic coincidence since the etymology of the song Alcal is famous for, the sole, comes from soledad or solitude...



Here is a great video of the sole de Alcal, with some video at the beginning of the city and an interview at the end about Joaqun el de la Paula (in Spanish):






On a side note, my journey started out in a typical Spanish manner: I arrived at the bus station at 11:40 to catch the 11:45 bus. Apparently, because of the marathon of Sevilla, buses weren't going to be running until noon. Of course there was no announcement of this, not even a piece of paper or anything, and as far as I knew the bus route didn't interfere with the marathon route. Some people had been waiting for the bus for an hour already. Uf! (And I thought the MTA in New York was bad!) I ended up waiting an hour and a half for the bus, which should come every half hour. I almost gave up and decided to go home, but I prevailed--indeed I am learning to be more patient, and to enjoy complaining with the others waiting, because there is a Sevillan art to complaining. 

I got off the bus in Alcal with a great view of the old castle straight in front of me. I immediately climbed to the top. I have to say the next best thing to going hiking and climbing boulders has to be climbing on an ancient fortress :)






Alcal's main industry used to be bread baking. Although it's not really known for that any more, it is still sometimes referred to as Alcal de los Panaderos (of thebread-makers). There are still remains from the old mills. Here's a picture of the Molina del Realaje:











Here's a view of what used to be the gypsy neighborhood--where the sole de Alcal would have been sung:







And here are the lyrics of a sole de Alcal sung by Joaqun el de la Paula:



Con la pena que yo vivo

No vivan las criaturas

Esta pena que yo tengo

Me lleva a la sepultura



(Animals cannot live

with the pain that I live with

This pain that I have

Will take me to my grave)
 Last week I saw three amazing flamenco shows. It'd been a little while, actually way too long, since I'd spent the money on seeing such caliber of shows, and it was well worth every penny and then some....Seeing great flamenco is just as important as taking classes and spending time in the studio, and most importantly it feeds my inspiration.

First, I saw Eva La Yerbabuena at The Gala for the Da de Andaluca (yes, we get a day off to celebrate being Andalucans; imagine if every state got a day off just to celebrate living in that state in the U.S. :) 






I had seen La Yerbabuena perform several years ago at the New York City Center. I loved all the videos I'd seen of her, and couldn't wait to see her dance in person, but I was disappointed. Her movements had been carried to such perfection that they were boring. Her dancing was over-calculated and I felt it was devoid of passion and expression. I'm glad I gave her a second chance. 

She began with seguiriya in which she war a jacket like a bull-fighter's (un traje de luces) and the piece seemed to be a subtle portrayal of a bullfighter's moments in the arena. Many gestures were taken directly from bullfighting. This was followed by a group piece that was a bit stale; although perfectly executed, it lacked excitement. The next piece Yerbabuena danced was a Tarantos. I loved the costume, but even more so the structure of the dance. To begin the piece, she repeated the same phrase of movement in three different spots on the stage which made the phrase function as a sort of chorus or refrain. In this piece I really began to realize the exquisite control she has of her body. The last piece she danced was a sole with a bata de cola (dress with a train). She astounded me with her control not only of her body, but of the bata, as if it were a part of her. To have such control and precision that she can command exactly how the bata falls seems superhuman. It began a little cold and overly precise, but at some point she seemed to let go, and really transmit through the flawless movements. 




Festival de Jerez!







Jerez is a town just an hour away from Sevilla. It is known for its Sherry (Jerez is Spanish for Sherry), for horses, and most importantly for flamenco, especially the rhythm of bulerias. I decided last minute to go to Jerez on Monday so I could see Manuela Rios' show and rsula Lpez's show. It was one of the best last minute decisions I've made. 



Here's some highlights from the two shows:




rsula Lpez reaching for the ephemeral in "La otra piel"


rsula's show, "La otra piel" was both flamenco and contemporary dance, and she executed both exquisitely; she and her sister are truly bilingual dancers in that way. At first I wasn't sure how each piece was connecting together, but by they end they all seemed to work together like a book of short stories that all somehow point in the same direction to an ephemeral feeling; I felt the show was a reflection of our search for something palpable in a world where language is entirely impalpable. There were many moments throughout the pieces of the dancers reaching in the air, attempting to grasp something and then letting go and retreating into themselves.  Rather than describe the dancing, which was technically flawless and very clean, I will leave you with the show description whichis what made me want to see the show initially:



"LA OTRA PIEL es una compleja y paradjica alquimia entre el cuerpo y lo incorpreo.
LA OTRA PIEL es bailar desde ese hilo tenue e indefinible que se llama aire.El aire es lo inasible,lo incorpreo, la transparencia.El ritmo y el cuerpo son su materialidad, su concrecin.El bailaor es un compuesto, una aleacin de metal bailado.Quiero bailar desde lo que soy, desde las fuentes de las que he bebido.Bailar desde una misma, de mi libertad al aire.Expresar la esencia de un baile en permanente dilogo.Instilar otras transparencias, otros aires, para poco a poco, soplo a soplo, dejar paso a mi libertad.Ha llegado el momento de restituir. As, a secas.Como si el cuerpo exsudara gota a gota los sedimentos que lo conforman.Ser,desde mi cuerpo, fluidez elemental, filtracin de mis manantiales, el flamenco y la danza espaola.Eso quiere ser LA OTRA PIEL.Quiero recrear desde la esencia de la palabra.Recrear es un ms all del divertir o del deleitar.Recrear es responsabilidad artstica contempornea.LA OTRA PIEL quiere ir ms all del convenido dilogo entre danza espaola y flamenco,dos expresiones artsticas distintas pero no tan diferentes, alejarse de la uniforme rigidez a la que se ha sometido.Quiero devolverle su libertad area, impalpable e inasible libertad.Ir a la conquista del aire."



(THE OTHER SKIN is a complex and paradoxical alchemy between the corporal andincorporeal.

THE OTHER SKIN is dance from that fine and indefinable thread we all air.

Air is the inaccessible, theimmaterial, the transparent.

Rhythm and the body are its materiality, its concretion.

The dance is a compound, an alloy of danced metal.

I want to dance from what I am, from the fountains from which I have drank.

To dance from oneself, from my freedom to the air's.

To express the essence of a dance in permanent dialogue.

To Instill other transparencies, other airs, so that little by little, breath by breath, I make way for my freedom.

The moment to of restoration has arrived. Like that, and nothing more.

As if the body exudes drop by drop the sediments that shape it.

To be, from my body, elemental fluidity, filtration of my springs--flamenco and spanish dance.

That is what THE OTHER SKIN wants to be.

I want to recreate from the essence of the word.

To recreate is more than entertainment or delight.

To recreate is contemporary artistic responsibility.

THE OTHER SKIN wants to go further than the previously agreed dialogue between spanish dance and flamenco, two distinct, but not so different artisticexpressions, to move away from the uniform rigidity from which they have been subdued.

I want to return to them their airy freedom, impalpable and inaccessible liberty. 

To reach the conquest of the air.)





Manuela Ros dancing por sole where it seemed as if she were in a trance. 



The second show I saw was "Consuelo de penas" by my teacher Manuela Ros. It couldn't have been more distinct from rsula's show; Manuela is very 'flamenca' in the sense that she does not prominently experiment with influences outside of flamenco, although that's not to say she is limited to the vocabulary of the past. This work functioned as a sort of homage to the music and musicians that inspired her when she was 'colmado de penas' (overflowing with pain). 
The performance was not as clean or flawless as I think she is capable of producing, but in that way it left plenty of room for spontaneous expression. Manuela's solo was a sole in which it almost seemed as if she were in a trance at moments. There were two interesting pieces that featured Manuela and Cristina Hall; the first was a tarara danced with long pearl necklaces in which both dancers moved in and out of the necklaces, sometimes enlacing one another. After they removed the necklaces there was a moment when their true rapport and enjoyment of working with one another really shone threw. 



La Tarara. 


The second interesting piece danced by both women featured each one in a bata de cola (dress with a train) that was stuck under a guitarist's chair so that they could not move beyond the radius of their bata.  Both women have beautiful control of their arms, and the structure of the piece featured that. 




Cristina Hall's piece left me speechless. 

The highlight of the show was Cristina Hall's solo. She began in silence, in a lit circle in the center of the stage. Her gestures and movements told a story in such a way that nothing seemed to exist beyond that circle of light; the language of her dancing is far reaching in that; it needs no music, it goes beyond any limits of flamenco, and most importantly it transmits. I felt as if the lit air around her was just as much a part of the dance as she was. At one point she stepped out of the light, and you could suddenly feel the cold of the dark and the warmth of the light. She slowly reached her hand back into the light, walking around the circle as her hand grazed the lit air. It was a magical moment because the light and the darkness were palpable. For me, one of the marks of a great dancer is they create the illusion that they not only control their body adeptly, but they control the air around them--the negative space of the choreography. 



 

All the Fulbright Spain Scholars--English teaching assistants, graduate research scholars (that's me!), and senior scholars--on the steps of the University of Zaragoza.I'm in the second row, just behind the sign, between a girl in a yellow shirt and a man in a suit...


This last week I travelled to Zaragoza for the mid-year Spain Fulbright conference. All the grantees from Spain met for a few days of discussions, presentations, and catching up. It was a lot of fun to see how everyone's project is going and to discuss our experiences in Spain. 

I only have a few months of the grant left, and I feel like I'm in panic mode. There is so much left to learn and study and do! The grant technically ends mid-June, but I will be staying in Spain through July. Even so, 11 months seems like nothing. Mostly I have learned that flamenco is far more profound than I could have imagined, and I have barely begun to scratch the surface. 

Zaragoza, a city founded and named after Caesar Augustus, was a delight! Here is the photo of the Basilica del Pilar beside the Ro Ebro:





Now to catch up on some sleep after the conference and get ready for the Fulbright Berlin Conference for European Fulbright Scholars!
 





This past week I went to Germany for the European Fulbright Mid-Year Seminar. The German Fulbright Commission invited Alexander MacDonald (Fulbright Grantee in Ireland and a tap dancer) and I to perform together at the Gala during the conference. We choreographed the piece in Madrid in January, rehearsed in Berlin, and performed at the opening Gala on March 18. It was a blast to put the piece together and learn about each other's art forms and experiences with our Fulbright grants. 


Here's the youtube video!



When we weren't rehearsing or performing, we experienced Berlin....

The East Side Galleryis a 1.3km section of the wall that was painted by artists from all over the world in the early 90's. It is currently the focus of much political tension because it may be moved or destroyed in order to make way for luxury apartments. I hope that does not happen; it's very powerful to see all of these images on the original wall in its original position....

There were so many paintings and they were all so different. Here are a few:


























And a video of a small segment:




Berlin is filled with Museums. I went to three. First, I visitedThe Pergamonmuseum in Museum Island. It is filled with antiquities, including the Pergamon Altar and the Gate of Ishtar from Babylon. It was awesome to see the processional way in its entirety:


















Next up was theMusikinstrumenten-Museum, aka the Museum of Musical Instruments, which was ironically the quietest museum I have ever been in. It mostly left me curious about what some of the crazy looking instruments sound like....














Lastly, we went to the Neue Nationalegalerie which is filled with my favorite era of art; postwar and 20th century...I apparently was so into the art that I didn't take hardly any photos there...but here's one work I really liked:




The canvas reads: 

The content of this painting is invisible; the character and dimension of the

contentare to be kept permanently secret, known only to the artist.






That evening I went to a Fulbright art show at the Staycation Museum. Here's a link to info about the exhibition: http://bordersexhibition.wordpress.com/vernissage/

The place was packed and it was awesome to be able to talk to the artists and hear about their Fulbright projects. 









Afterwards, Alex (Ireland), Daniela (Andorra), and Elizabeth (Slovakia) headed to a nearby bar and enjoyed some homemade African Spice Gin. Great bar, great drinks, great conversation, great company! Overall at the conference it was incredible to meet so many different people studying so many different things all over Europe; I made lots of new friends! :)





From left to right: Alex, me, Elizabeth, Daniela

The next morning I listened to the various project presentations at the conference. A dozen grantees were selected to present their projects; the variety was astounding and every one's project sounded super interesting! Here are few topics that I found particularly interesting: 


"Being digital and Green: Finding Solutions to E-Waste Problems in U.S./EU Perspective" by Natalia

     Milovantseva
"Eradicating Malaria: Just a Dream?" by Jill Ulrich

"The Alchemical Orange: Rethinking Craft's Importance" by Victoria DeBlassie (She is in Italy

     learning how to tan orange peels!)

"Civility and Its Discontents: Rudeness and Refinement in Modern Political Thought" by Dr. Douglas

     Casson




Afterwards, I headed to KaDeWe which is the largest department store in Germany, and I of course headed straight to the top floor--the grocery store!!!! I bought some kind of Stollen which was the tastiest sweet bread I've ever had, and I've had a lot of sweet breads! It was filled with dried fruits and marzipan, and was somewhere between the texture of bread and croissant. Yum! 





SO much mustard!!!!!!!



and sausages!!!!!!



and bread!!!!!!


and pastries!!!!!





...then off to a picnic lunch in Viktoria Park/Kreuzberg. This is a very large hill in an otherwise totally flat city, which means after an icy climb to the top, Alex and I got a great view of the city. 



The view from the top.




Looking up towards the hill and monument. 

And the best part of the park:



Building a Snowman

















and GOATS!!!!!!





















Some thoughts on Berlin:

Memories of WWII and the divided city are present everywhere. There is an eerie feeling of tension--of the city trying to rebuild itself and find an identity. It's as if the wounds from the 20th century have not yet entirely healed; the scars at the least are present in every day life. There are so many monuments and statues everywhere, it's impossible to escape the city's history. The sounds of the trains and trolley cars and crows, lots of crows, seems to add to the eeriness. YetBerlin is full of a lively grittiness. The contemporary music and art scene permeates the city. I got to listen to a bit of jazz and see some of the smaller galleries--which reminded me of New York. Overall, it's a fascinating city where you never know what you might find!

Gallery of Random Photos:


A very German bar where I enjoyed some German beer in Germany, finally!



Tiergarten. You can see the flea market where I bought a beer stein in the background.




Brandenburg Gate




Radio tower and my hotel to the right of it.




St. Nikolai Kirche, the oldest church in Berlin.




Oberbaum Bridge




Giant Crows!!!!




Berliner Dom (Cathedral)




A box of pretzels on the street, which is normal, because there are pretzels everywhere!






















The Hauptbahnhof (or main train station in Berlin with the Reichstag in the background)







 

Jesus del Gran Poder, one of the most well-known figures of Chirst in Sevilla exiting the Cathedral during the procession in the wee hours of the morning on Good Friday. 



Holy week in Sevilla is a big deal. Actually, that's an understatement. Holy week takes year long preparation, participation of thousands of Sevillanos, not to mention the hundreds of thousands of Andalucans who fill the narrow streets and the thousands of tourists that come from all over the world to see Sevilla's passion. People pack in to the narrow streets, getting there hours early, with packed food, sunflower seeds, water, beer--in some ways it feels like a sporting event. In every bar on TV is the live coverage with commentary. Indeed, it's followed with the enthusiasm of a large sporting event, one that takes a full week, yet with a much more solemn tone. 

My Grandma, at age ninety-something, couldn't remember much, but she remembered her trip to Sevilla decades earlier during Semana Santa. When I would call her the last several months she was alive, she could remember that I was either in Spain, or going to Spain, or had just been there (all of which were somewhat true.) So she would tell me about her trip to Sevilla because all she knew was that story somehow related to me. Mostly she seemed to remember the crowded streets, being careful of pick pockets, and things like that. Regardless, being present in Sevilla that week stuck with her, when many other things had not. She would tell me about Semana Santa several times in one phone coversation, because she did not realize she had just finished telling me the story. 


So what is Semana Santa?

Basically, Semana Santa is when pasosor large floats of Jesus Christ or the Virgin Mary are taken from the church or chapel they reside in all year to the Cathedral in the center of Sevilla, then back again to their church. Each procession is organized by a different Catholic layman's brotherhood or hermandad. The standard order of the procession is as follows:

1) Cruz de gua (guiding cross)
     Each procession begins with a guiding cross.

 


Here is the cruz de guaof the hermandadLos Servitas in the Plaza just outside the chapel. 



2) Nazarenos
     These are the members of the hermandadthat wear a capiroteor pointed hat and long gown and walk in the procession as an act of penance. They walk in silence and are often carrying tall wax candles that are lit at night. The crowds of people watching the procession continue talking and chatting as the nazarenos pass. The pointed hat is meant to bring their penance closer the heavens and god and the outfits are meant to make them anonymous, so that they are doing the act of penance without any acknowledgement. It is only as of 2010 that women were legally allowed to participate, although there is quite a bit of speculation that women have been participating in the processions for years earlier because of the anonymity of the attire. 
     To keep order among the nazarenos, there are diputados de tramo or section chiefs. Each section is divided by some kind ofpennantat its beginning. Depending on the size of the hermandadthere can be anywhere from a few hundred to a few thousand nazarenos. Some processions are so huge, it takes about an hour and a half for the beginning of the procession to the end to pass one point!




Eachhermandadhas a unique color and symbol. 


Theinsigniaof Los Servitas is a heart with seven swords piercing the heart and a crown above. Their official name is:Real, Ilustre y Venerable Hermandad de Nazarenos y Primitiva Cofrada Servita de Nuestra Seora de los Dolores, Santsimo Cristo de la Providencia, Mara Santsima de la Soledad y San Marcos Evangelistade Sevilla.


3) Next is a group of acolytes that carry incense. During the week all of Sevilla smells like church incense, with each brotherhood having a specific scent, or if a procession hasn't passed through a street, it smells like orange blossom or azahar (the spanish name is so much prettier!) from the blooming orange trees everywhere. I wish there were some way to share that via a blog!

4) The Pasoitself, or the float of Jesus and then the Virgin. 
The crowds fall completely silent when the floats pass. Jesus or a crucifix always comes first, followed by more nazarenosor penitentes, which are nazarenoswho are carrying large wooden crosses and do not wear the pointed cap. 



Here is the cross of Los Servitas; it is Cristo de la Providencia and the Virgin de los Dolores (Christ of Divine Providence and the Virgin of Sorrow). The detail of the floats is incredible; it's profound to see such a huge float that so vividly represents Jesus' suffering and death. It's a powerful reminder that Easter is about a lot more than the Easter Bunny and marshmallow peeps. 









Here are two short video snips:







(On a side note, I was not too into taking video or photos; it takes away from the experience. I did not want to be distracted too much by camera when seeing and hearing the pasowas so astounding, so forgive the lack of good videos please!)






Penitentes.

After the penitentes comes the Virgin. Most of the floats during Semana Santa are considered antiques or works of art. They can be hundreds of years old and cannot be taken out in the rain because they are made of wood and are at risk of becoming severely damaged by water. For that reason, a pasocan be entirely cancelled if it is raining, which happened on Friday when not a single paso left. If it begins to rain after the procession has begun, the pasosmust seek shelter in the nearest church or chapel. 



La Virgin de la Soledad (Virgin of Loneliness).




Check out the back of her dress; it's massive and all embroidered in gold. 

The floats are carried by at least two dozen or up to 54costaleros(person who carries goods/porter), depending on the size of the float. They are under the float, hidden from view by a curtain, and are guided by the voice of a guide and the sounding of a hammer. 

Here's a video snippet of the Esperanza de Triana Virgin being lifted by the costaleros. There is no music because she is returning to her church a day late after taking shelter from the rain. Music only accompanies the pasosif their trajectory is not altered by rain. 



5) Music
Each float, is followed by a band. There are a few exceptions to this, particularly the hermandadknown as El Silencio (The Silence), for obvious reasons....



Other important parts of Semana Santa:

 Saetas. These are songs sung acappellato the floats. The procession stops for the saeta, and as the song culminates the band begins to play softly. I was lucky enough to catch two saetas. Here is the video snippet of the middle of it and another of the end of it:








La Madrug. This takes place during the very early morning hours of Good Friday. I stayed up all night, staked out with some friends at the back of the Cathedral, where all the pasosexit and begin their path back to their churches. There, we caught three whole pasos, El Silencio, El Gran Poder, and La Macarena. We met up around 1:00am, stayed there until about 6:30am, then headed back to my neighborhood, ate a breakfast ofbuuelos, or doughnuts which are popular at any time of day during Semana Santa, and then I went to bed. Here are some of the photos I took that night:












































The Triana Bridge at dawn.





Buuelos!


 ....you have to be daring.









Last night, I danced at La
Pea Nio Alfalfa. It's a cultural flamenco society located in the heart
of Sevilla. It's a place I often frequent to see other dancers and
musicians; it's my favorite pea in Sevilla because there is no snobbery, (nopijos),no anti-foreigners, no flamenco 'aristocrats.' It's
somewhere I can always go on a Friday or Saturday night and hear some good
flamenco, have a nice jam session, catch up with friends and thesocios, make new friends, and just generally have atranquilo(laid back) flamenco evening. When I got to Sevilla, I
requested a date to perform there; the first available date was in April--so I
guess I've been waiting a long time for this....


I decided to dancepor seguiriyas. I've never ever ever in my life danced a solo in thatpalo. For me, it's by far the hardestpalo. But
I can't just keep dancing dances I am already good at; my friend Cristina Hall
helped me work up the courage to dance aseguiriya. Although it was a risk, I knew if I'd done the
same dances I've done all my life, I wouldn't learn much, and that's what I am
here to do. Learn.



Studying flamenco is
humbling. It is both the simplest and most complicated thing I have ever
encountered in my life. There is always more to learn, and the more you
learn, the more you realize you dont know. Its an endless journey and
process. Sometimes it seems so easy, yet it is harder than it looks to
get up and dance everything in rhythm, with control, with expression, with a
profound understanding of what you are actually doingthat way you are not
imitating but really using flamenco as a means of communication.



So I dancedpor seguiriya, and a difficult choreography at that--mostly steps from Manuela
Rios advanced class. And I had about half an hour in total to rehearse
with both musicians (and I had to rehearse my other dance too!) I feel
like I danced theseguiriyadecently. A few mishaps here and there; I don't yet
have the resources or experience to a) play within the rhythm as much as I
would like to, or b) call in the musicians again if they miss a cue. But
I am far happier that I pushed myself to dance that piece than if I had danced
another dance flawlessly.



I am always doing that
which I cannot do, in order that I may learn how to do it. Pablo Picasso




I dancedpor tientosas my second piece. As I reflected after the
performance, I remembered the first time I dancedpor tientosas a solo; I got completely out ofcomps(out of rhythm) in the opening of the dance, and
remained out ofcompsfor the entire rest of the dance (Oof!). That
was several years ago. Now,tientosis my favorite palo; the choreograpy I dancepor tientosis also truly mine--something I put together
rather than something I learned from someone else and gave my own color.
Its amazing to look at how Ive progressed. So, for last night being my
first time EVER dancing a solopor seguiriyas, I did pretty wellyou have to start somewhere.  :)



For now, here is the video
of thetientos/tangos. And also a HUGEOLto David Hornillo (singer) and Idan Balas (guitarist).







Thanks to Ellen for taking the video!!!!

And, the skirt I am wearing is the work of my mother, Barbara Blumenfeld. Check out her flamenco skirts!http://barbarafym.com/


 
The availability of video changes
dance. It changes the way we learn, the way we remember, and even the way
we dance. Are we all just youtube dancers nowadays, where the in-person
experience no longer matters, where how we look in a four inch screen is more
important than transmitting something real to an audience in person?

In flamenco, we are now able to
watch videos of dancers that have long ago passed away. Suddenly we don't
rely merely on oral transmission, we can learn entire dances from the internet.
But the problem is we don't understand where the steps came from, or
the intentions behind them. It is great to be able to see all these videos of famous dancers, but dance was not meant for two dimensions and there is something that is lost in its translation from live three-dimensional performance. Nevertheless, it's wonderful that we can actually see these historic figures and at least get a sense of their style and expression. 

As students, we can record the steps we learn in class so that we don't have to practice them as frequently--they are saved on
our computers for whenever we need them, rather than saved in our memory and
muscle memory. But that cuts the creative process short. Instead of
being forced to remember a piece, to keep it up, or when we don't remember it, remembering
what we can and filling in the gaps with our own steps or new steps, we just
copy and paste from a video.But is that really art? Does it matter how we learned a step? I'm not going to lie--I've been inspired by steps on youtube, I've never copied word for word simply because I've never found a step that I could or wanted to copy sound for sound or movement for movement, but many times I've been inspired by something on youtube. 

As dancers, our vocabulary is limited by video storage. Imagine if instead of learning what a word meant in a language, you took a picture of the dictionary definition and saved that photo to your computer along with hundreds of other words. (Although we do this too nowadays with language/facts on the internet--thank you wikipedia). Instead of expanding your vocabulary, you simply know there exists a larger vocabulary but can't pull the words from the top of your head. 

Also, a dance made for video versus a dance made for stage has to take into account different elements. Certain movements are lost on camera, others become more exaggerated. If you transfer dance to two dimensions, in general I feel like every movement reads less; dance on camera is a genre in and of itself with its own codes and aesthetics. So are dancers starting to dance differently nowadays because they know their work is going to wind up on youtube no matter how hard they try to control that? (Which opens up a whole other world of copyright issues.)

A positive use of video:

I had my friend Ellen video my performance at Nio Alfalfa. I feel bad when I ask a friend to video me. If they were already planning on coming to my show, it's like they will lose out on the experience because instead of watching me live, they will be staring at a two-inch screen version of the performance. I will never understand why people of their own volition film a performance--watching it through the screen--rather thanexperiencingit (I've seen this countless times, especially in NYC.) 

I needed the video for learning purposes. Watching a video of myself is not an easy process. Actually, its generally an
incredibly painful process. Nothing looks as good as I think, and I
notice all kinds of things I need to work on; it has to be done though, because
there is no better way to see if everything youve been working on actually
works. I saw that in some places of myseguiriyaI wasn't as clear as I
could have been. I was able to see why certain steps worked and others did not. And I realized some parts that I knew did not go as planned weren't actually as bad as I had thought. 

Then to help me figure out how to more clearly tell the guitarist what I wanted, I watched videos of well-known dancers on youtube, and payed particular attention to the guitar accompaniment. And, the second time in my life that I danced por seguiriya, it went about 100 times better, and I don't think that would have been possible if I had not done my videoing homework. 

Whether or not we like it, the way in which video permeates our cultureaffects dance. Its effects are both negative and positive, depending on how we want to use video. It's just something to keep in mind next time we break out our cameras or start searching for performances on youtube. 




 

The portada (entrance) to the Feria at night. AMAZING!!!!!


My bedroom growing up was decorated with vintage Feria de Abril posters, there were paper lanterns hanging on the ceiling, and lots of bright colors. Now multiply that by about a gazillion and you get the Feria de Abril.





I had no idea what to expect at feria. In fact, I really had no idea what Feria was. Here's what I knew going in:

The women all get dressed up in flamenco trajes (remember my post in Feb. about flamenco fashion week:http://alicesadventuresinspain.blogspot.com.es/2013/02/soooooooooo-many-ruffles.html). 



Some women in their trajes looking at the map of the feria grounds. 




Horses everywhere. There are horses all over the city to pick wealthier Sevillanos up and take them to the fair in style. I loved hearing the jingling bells and the clicking of the hooves throughout the city center. 






Rebujito everywhere. This is a drink made of cheap manzanilla(a fine sherry wine made in Sanlcar de Barremeda, a town near Cdiz) mixed with 7up; I was luckily forewarned it is quite potent, yet goes down like water. There is always a pitcher of it on hand (or in pocket--see below), and lots of plastic shot glasses to drink it. (Please note, Spaniards are masters of keeping a happy tipsy going, it's not about getting drunk. You drink some, you eat a little to soak up the alcohol, then repeat.)





Yes, that is a pitcher of rebujito hanging out of his back pocket. 
And yes, I asked permission to take a photo of his behind ;P


Lots of Sevillanas dancing. Sevillanas are a folk dance from Sevilla danced at the Feria and at other bigget-togethers. Everyone knows Sevillanas (this is notafter-alltrue, plenty of Sevillanos cannot dance Sevillanas, at least not until they've had plenty to drink--hence the importance of the rebujito ;).



A sevillana trying to teach a fellow Sevillano how to dance Sevillanas. 
Eventually he sort of got the hang of it, sort of....



And casetas which I knew were some kind of tent/houses that families or business have. There are also public casetas, which I was told to avoid at all costs because they aren't much fun.



Here is a caseta. It's sort of like a living room/dining room. The bigger ones are more like ballrooms. 


The Feria originated as a cattle and livestock fair--similar to State Fairs in the U.S. It eventually evolved into more of just a Spring fair to get together.

Despite all this knowledge going in to the fair and the decor of my adolescent bedroom, I didn't really know what feria is. What do people do there? Why does it exist?--I mean I am all for getting dressed up in beautiful dresses, but it was hard to get excited about something when I had no idea what it was. 



Here's a little snippets of what feria is actually all about, or at least what I experienced:

It's about enjoying life. It turns out I couldn't really understand what feria isuntil I went, because it is something so intangible there is no way to put it into words. It's really just as simple as enjoying life and people. 

Hay que ir a la feria porque hay que cuidar las tradiciones, si no, se desaparecen. You have to go the feria because you have to take care of the traditions or they disappear. (What my guitarist said during rehearsal, since we all had a little bit of resaca(a hangover) and were quite tired....) It's true though, and Sevillanos know how to keep up their traditions, it's a beautiful thing to have so much pride about tradition, and be so open to sharing it with foreigners. 

Sevillanas is a dance of seduction, whereas flamenco is a dance of feelings and expression. This is what one Spaniard explained to me. The most fun I had dancing Sevillanas was with a friend of a friend who had no idea how to dance the actual steps of the sevillanas, but he knew how to have a presence and command the space, so even though he was making the steps up (they were in rhythm), he was an excellent Sevillanas partner. 

There is a link between each year's fair because the casetas are always in the same places, so you can go back to the same casetas year after year, and be reminded of good times the year before and reunite with people you don't usually see. It's a giant family/friend/city reunion. I was even surprised at the number of Sevillanos I ran into. I would go into one caseta with one group of friends, then randomly run into several other people I knew. You just spend the day or night like this... 

You hop from caseta to caseta, drinking, talking, dancing, enjoying. Someone knows someone who has some caseta over there--so you meet about five or six new friends, then all head to that caseta together. You dance, you drink, you chat. It sounds like it's nothing, but it has been one of the most amazing experiences of my life, precisely because there is just so much life at the feria. Somehow it's brought a lot of joy back in to my dancing, because that is what dance is--it is life, a reflection and expression of life. And there is so much life at the Feria!

Some more photos:



I swear it seems like the streets go on forever--I had no idea the feria was so huge!




The midway--because no fair is complete without rides and a ferris wheel!




Love the colorfulness of everything and everyone!




I swear when I close my eyes, I see flamenco dresses....and I still can't get enough of them!





Walking down Calle Asuncin towards the portada. 




The portada during the day. Very pretty!














Loved how this girl posed when she saw I was taking a pic. 




Dancing Sevillanas!




Deborah and I...we had a blast dancing to some super fast sevillanas music after several rebujitos! :P




My friend Sara who invited me to her family's caseta. Also an awesome Sevillana dancer!






One of the larger casetas, and this is only about half of it!




Mary Ann and I. So much fun dancing together!!!






 Please be forewarned, I very much like bullfights and think they are an important and profound art form. Yes I am a hypocrite because otherwise I am for animal rights, although let's face it, these bulls live much much much happier lives than animals that are eaten, although that does not make it right to hurt any animal, but it does give some relativity to the politics of bullfighting. So unless you're a vegan and are anti-bullfighting, please read on with an open mind as I express my recent experiences at bullfights....





The Plaza de Toros de La Maestranza (The bullring in Sevilla) with the cathedral in the background). (photo: abc.sevilla.es)

There are two moments I love in bullfights. The first, and most obvious moment from which to be astounded, is the instant before the torero kills the bull. Yes, this sounds like it will be gruesome, but there is something profound when you see the matador line up the bulls feet perfectly (they have to be side by side or else the sword will not enter in the space between the scapula and not pierce the aorta, which will ensure a quick death for the bull), prepare the muleta (red cape used in the last third of the bullfight) in such a way that it looks like a small live animal crouching at the feet of the matador--yet it's just a piece of fabric, then in an instant the bullfighter and the bull are face to face right before the sword is plunged into the bull, or alternatively the bullfighter is gored by the horns and severely injured. It's that moment before the contact that astonishes me--there is no trickery, no side swipes--the bullfighter is directly in front of the bull, face to face. He has to attack the bull completely frontally in order to kill it properly. The bull has to be convinced the cape and not the bullfighter is what he is after, and the bullfighter has only an instant to reach the sword forward before he must leap to the side. I guess it's just that full-frontal confrontation that astounds me. 



Morante as he prepares to kill a bull.



The second part of bull fights that I love is quite the opposite; when the torero stands completely still, facing the bull, and does absolutely nothing. Nothing but stare at the bull and wait. That in and of itself has to be one of the hardest and most riveting moments of a bullfight, and from those moments I have learned so much about flamenco. The emptiness of nothing happening is one of my biggest fears in a dance; yet those are the moments you remember. Israel Galvn once said that the audience is the dancer's bull. And it's true in many ways. We are confronting the audience, making ourselves completely vulnerable.  I've learned about rhythm and pacing from the bullfights. In many ways, the music itself is our bull--as dancers we are able to 'play' with the rhythm and the music, weave in and out, just as the bullfighters weave around the bull with their cape. And if we don't fully command the space, ourselves, and the musicians, the audience will not believe us--we will not be able to transmit anything. It's that attitude that is so essential to flamenco, and the ability to wait--to not rush through each movement and each section, but to truly experience it. This may seem a bit cheesy, but there is a reason the bullfighting worlds and flamenco worlds are closely linked. In a more concrete way, dances are structured similar to a bullfight, with different sections and each one serving a purpose. 





There are many gestures that come directly from the bullfight and the vocabulary used to describe movements are the same. For example, aremateis a culminating step in flamenco that is used at the end of a section of footwork, as a response to a verse of the singing, or to close or open a section of a dance. In the bullfight, it is the end of a series of successful passes with the bull, when the bullfighter turns away with a sort of flourish with his arm to round off the series. Knowing the intention behind this gesture in this context gives a different meaning to a remate for me in flamenco. A remate is any sort of rounding off--it is the word used to mean hem in clothing, but knowing its connection to bullfighting enriches its use in flamenco for me. 





There are also many postures that come from bullfighting, and the bullfight is in many ways a dance between the bullfighters and the bull. Yes, it is trickery--tricking the bull into going for the cape, but in so doing the bullfighter creates a sort of pas de deux with the bull. He leads the bull, he decides which way it must go, which way it will turn around him. Sometimes they spin around each other several times before the bullfighter bulls the cape away and finished the pass. That a large animal and a man can move in such unison is incredible. 





I've been to two bullfights recently, and I have to say, each time I go I understand flamenco a little bit better. Regardless of your opinions on the politics of bullfighting, it is an important influence on flamenco and the art forms are closely related. I don't know as much as I would like to about bullfighting, it is a complex art form with much history and symbolism, along with its own dictionary of terminology. Little by little I am learning more.

The spanish wikipedia page has a good basic overview if you speak spanish:http://es.wikipedia.org/wiki/Corrida_de_toros

The english version is not as detailed or orientated towards the art form, but here is the link:
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bullfighting I've been thinking a lot recently about the oral tradition of flamenco. Sometimes it seems as if it could be threatened by Youtube and modern technology, but not really, since those cannot capture the live energy of performance. A few weeks ago I wrote about video and dance:
http://alicesadventuresinspain.blogspot.com.es/2013/04/some-thoughts-on-video-and-dance.html
I took Concha Vargas' class yesterday and I realized something HUGE about flamenco that also relates to video's lack in teaching or transmitting flamenco.





Concha has a very unique style. She is a very large gypsy woman from a town near Sevilla called Lebrija. She is known particularly for dancing buleras de Lebrija, which is a slower style of buleras that has more pauses. She has this amazing control of her body; she has a a huge stomach, which you might expect to jiggle around or something while she dances--yet it seems as if she controls it perfectly. She knows how to make it part of the dance; it addsrather than detracts from her aesthetic. 





Sometimes she makes these faces like she is a witch about to scare away some children; I'm not going to lie--I would have been frightened of her when I were five years old. But the thing is she is always telling something, sharing something, expressing something. She knows when to be explosive and when to hold back. She has the same musical control and accuracy as any of the technically fabulous dancers from Madrid, but she's not showy. Her point seems to be to share her personality with whoever is around her. 

Concha definitely has her own style, her own way of moving. I suppose I could have learned some of her steps and tendencies that yield this style via videos. I could have studied her movements and noticed how she places her weight, the gestures or 'dibujos' of her arms, but I would have been missing the most integral part of her dancing--her energy. Flamenco has to be transmitted orally because it is about the unique energy that gives each of us our own personalities. It is about infusing the steps with our stories, told from our perspectives--our interpretation of the music. This flamenco 'energy' is kept alive because it is transmitted from one generation to another. Youtube and all of our technology is cold; what I mean to say is it can't transmit human energy. A video of a dancer will never make me feel the same way in which a real dancer can make me feel. 

Concha made an interesting point about one of the steps that she taught. A turn she is credited with creating she openly admits is not her own. She learned it from someone in Lebrija who died long ago, and surely he learned it from someone before him. She said that she is credited with it because she is the first person to be recorded on video doing the step. Video makes us forget about the importance of the personal transmission of steps; it cannot carry the energy of life and for that reason, in this context, I want to say it is dead or cold. 



Concha dancing with Andrs Marn. They both have a similar approach to flamenco, yet very different styles; Andrs being considered a vanguard dancer and Concha a more traditional gypsy style. They have worked together on several shows, and the combination of their energies on stage is a sight to be seen, absolutely enthralling. It again points to the idea that flamenco is not about superficial aesthetic but about energy and the codes that make it a living, breathing language. 


All and all, I've realized just how important energy is in flamenco. Personality is our unique energy that we can transmit through dance and to learn someone's style and steps in flamenco, you must learn them in person or you miss out on their very purpose--the transmission of that energy. Now, ironically, I will post a video of Concha and one of Concha and Andrs so you can at least get an idea of her style and command of flamenco. 







 



On friday, the Fulbright Grant period officially ended. I will be staying in Spain until August 1st, returning to Albuquerque for a month, and then back to NYC on September 1st. Until August, my adventures here will continue, but I wanted to take this moment to reflect on the year. 

First off, the year has flown by. I am in need of time to digest and internalize everything I have learned here. You won't believe this, but earlier this week I was writing the date and wrote April--apparently the year has flown by much much faster than I have been able to comprehend recently. It also does not help that time doesn't really exist in Sevilla--lunch takes however long to eat and chat, usually around three hours. Getting a drink with someone can take up to six hours. There's no rush here in Sevilla; we enjoy, we savor, we live with a schedule based on personal interactions, not pre-planned timetables that command our lives. New York is going to be one hell of a culture shock for me....The day to day existence here has been one of the biggest challenges and most enriching parts of my experience. And it's also the day to day life here that shapes flamenco--so very important for me to have immersed myself in...

Back to the Fulbright, what did I come here to learn and what have I learned?

Mostly, I've learned that there is a LOT I don't know and want/need to learn. Yet I've deepened my knowledge of flamenco in ways I never even thought of before.

I've learned how to study flamenco. I've learned that I need to experiment and take apart and understand the steps I have learned. In mounting a new alegras to perform this week, I realized I loved the steps that I was using that I learned from Andrs Marn not for the steps in themselves, but for how they fit with the music. At first, I tried just using those steps in whatever song the singer sang, and it did not work. It's not about placing steps over the music, it's about mounting steps that reflect the music, go with the melody, or break from the melody when I want them to--it's about playing with the musicality. I'm still working on this--on the experimentation in the studio--and will be for the rest of my life. Flamenco song is unfathomably comprehensive and there is always more to learn and understand and a million ways to mount dance steps to the music.  

I've learned a lot about the importance of practical knowledge vs. theoretical knowledge, and the importance of the former. I want to do; I don't want to talk about doing. I mean this in regards to flamenco, but also in any aspect of life. It's not opinions or thoughts that change the world, it's actions. Practical knowledge and theoretical knowledge must complement one another and coexist; each one alone is void, and sometimes it's easy to get stuck in the theoretical side. 

I've learned a lot about people. About the importance of knowing yourself, not comparing yourself to others, of being truthful to yourself. Flamenco is my language and it is through language that we understand ourselves and the world. I don't want to be an imitation of any dancer, I want to find my own vocabulary in flamenco and tell my stories. It's hard not to imitate--it requires a much deeper knowledge of flamenco, it requires dancing consciously, giving every moment meaning and intention. You can't dance 'me lo s' (whatever). I want my dancing to speak; that means every moment of the dance has to feel like new, a new moment of creation.   

I've learned lots of facts about flamenco singing and history and the songs. You've seen some of what I've learned in earlier blog posts. The variations, nuances, and histories within each palo, not to mention the key figures in flamenco is unending. Every day I learn something new about flamenco. 

Most of all, I have a different perspective of flamenco. I see it as an ever-evolving art form. It is like a language, and from an academic perspective, it has to be studied like a language full of various dialects, complicated history, and always open to evolution. 

So what's next for me?

Still a month and a half left here in Spain--lots of dancing to do here! Then I want to put everything I have been studying here to work...that means dancing, dancing, dancing, everywhere, anywhere, anyhow back in the States. Teaching and giving lectures about flamenco--sharing what I've learned here. Continuing to learn and study--even though I will not be in flamenco's homeland I can still listen to and study the music--thank you Spotify and Youtube; it's not quite the same as learning from the source, but I do need to study the recordings of singers from generations ago. I will create new dances, make old ones better. And then a big project, I want to create my own show; it's a work in progress and I have lots of work to do on the business side of things....but I have an urge to share my work--practical knowledge....it makes me think of this video:




Yes, most importantly, I never want to lose my love of dancing and sharing that love with anyone and everyone...And to never lose that innocent urge to create, to be free through creating.  

A moment of quiet calmness in my baile por tarantosat Caja Negra last week. 

I've been in a plateau in my dancing recently. Like language learning or anything else, we often hit a plateau where we grow, but only slowly. I've just realized recently in which direction I need to go and start climbing. I've got a lot of work ahead of me--a lifetime's worth for sure--flamenco is so enormous! I know now what had been holding me back and what I really need to focus on right now. I've been working a little bit differently in the studio recently. A while back I posted about what I do in the studio--I go to the studio at least 6 days a week for at least 2 hours a day....Here's how I've been working...

Slooooooooooooowing down. 
      The slower I work on steps in the studio, the better they come out. I keep seeing flamenco more and more as a science--it's about experimentation and taking each step apart to fully understand its physical mechanisms and it's musicality. It's only when I slow down that I am able to really get the juice out of every movement and moment. And juicing the steps is a lot of fun. The last thing in the world I need is more steps, what I really need is to make the steps I already have more musical--experiment and play around with the accents, make the arms make sense--any moment a photographer were to capture has to be picture perfect. And in that process the steps become my own; I not only fully understand them, but I begin to tell a story with them. Farruquito explained that often we don't understand why our steps don't come out on stage as well as they do in the studio, and it's often because we don't practice slowly. Even for him, he explained that the steps come out even stronger on stage if they have been practiced slowly and fully. But when he only rehearses them at the tempo they are to be performed, they always come out messy or sloppy. 

Listen, listen, listen, listen, listen, and listen some more. Never stop listening. 
      It's so easy in flamenco to get caught up in the steps. There's a lot of cool steps with great rhythms and swing out there. But what really makes a step great is how it goes with the music. Fancy steps are fancy steps. People applaud because they take great amounts of technique, stamina, or strength, but they don't really do much more than that. They're amazing but they don't tell a story. Even one simple stomp in the right place musically can be great and more powerful than 50 stomps quickly done in 6 counts. The steps that I love are ones that fit perfectly with the music, not the fancy ones. Again, this is why I came to Andaluca to study, because it is here where the musicality and cante is valued above all else. 
      Sometimes, I feel like I have no idea how to dance, not because I don't know how to move my body--that's exactly the problem, I know how to move, I have a lot of fuerza, but for a long time I have gotten away with just that. What I need to do is start listening to the music more, choreograph to the music. When everything comes together--the music and the dance--it's like magic. That's when a story is told and the dancing speaks. 
      One great way to do this is to dissect the dances and steps I have learned and figure out why they go well with the cante. And of course learn more cante. Listen and learn the cante. All the answers are there in the music--why we search elsewhere, in thin air, makes no sense as dancers. 
      Farruquito made another great point in class the other day--that as we get older, we lose our technique. Yet, if we work our musicality now, we will always be able to dance, we will always have that. That's why dancers like Manuela Carrasco, La Tati, Concha Vargas, etc., are still bringing audiences to their feet--because they have an amazing musicality. They can't do a dozen perfect vueltas quebradas (difficult turns with your body bent over), but they can do one in just the right place and capture your attention like no one else. 

Variety. You can't paint a picture with all the same color or brushstrokes. 
      I need to work on mixing strong moments with soft moments, loud steps with quiet steps. It goes back to juicing every step. It's not that my dancing in itself needs more variety. I have lots of great soft steps and lots of steps with fuerza. What I need is some remixing. I need to develop when I use certain gestures or shapes so that they give the most impact. If I do a whole step with tons of strength, there is no build up and no matter how strong I am it falls flat because it was all at the same volume. This goes back to working slowly--only by dissecting my steps am I able to make them tell a story rather than just shout. Slowing down is not easy for me--I am always in a rush to do. I need to learn to stop, to stand still--yet still be dancing, commanding the stage. For that reason my dances tend to be overloaded. It's the easiest, yet the hardest part of dancing--giving texture and variety often times by doing less. 

The funny thing is, when I work slowly in the studio, juicing every step, getting everything I can out of it, making it musical, giving it a story, I sweat much much more (and not just because it's been over 40 degrees celsius here recently). I feel like I am exerting myself less; yet, I am working harder because I am working the minutest control of my body and I am working with consciousness. I am leaving behind the plateau I have been stuck on and starting an upward climb. Here we go! :)
 



Here is a link to a post on the Fulbright Spain blog that I wrote for the Cine Migratorio Film Festival in Santander earlier this year:

http://elblogdefulbright.es/index.php/2013/06/migration-in-the-world-of-flamenco/ I have ten days left in Sevilla. I don't want to leave. This is my dream; living here, dancing here. But my dream is also to mount my own works, which is more feasible right now in the United States. As important as studying and experimenting in the studio is, I need and want to put this year to use performing and lecturing in the U.S. 

Going through some of the things I've acquired, mostly weeding out lots of things--unless anyone knows where you can buy a magical Mary Poppins bag--I found some notes I'd written my first few weeks here. One of them read, "Sometimes it feels like right when things are clicking in one place, we have to move to a new place, but I guess if we didn't move we'd get stagnant." A little piece of advice I left for myself in early September. 

So as my time here winds down, I figured I would do several posts about what I am going to miss most--really it's the quotidian things, which I haven't posted too much on blog. For the next 10 days I will post the little, normal things I will miss...along with something I am looking forward to in the States.

In Sevilla: On Thursdays there is a very large flea market on Calle Feria. Lots of interesting items from flamenco dresses to antique silver to pirated dvds. I enjoy looking at all the items--if I lived here permanently I'd give in to buying lots of porcelain and some of the artwork....




















And back in the states: I can't wait to see these:






The Sandia Mountains in Albuquerque.

 Say what?






I will miss giant oversized mushrooms in the middle of my city :P











With a great view of the surroundings.







The setas (mushrooms in Spanish), or as they are officially known, Metropol Parasol in the Plaza de la Encarnacin, are a giant wooden structure (yes, wood!--I was shocked when I found this out) designed by a German architect, Jurgen Mayer-Hermann. They are quite controversial because of the amount of money they cost to build, they are built on top of Roman ruins (which are accessible in a museum underneath the structure), and half-way through construction the architecture firm realized the structure was infeasible as designed and had to be re-designed, costing the city millions more euros. In the end they totaled around 100 million euros to build. Ouch.
Here's the link to the wikipedia page with more info (and better photos than mine):http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Metropol_Parasol






I was not a huge fan of them at first; when I was studying abroad they were still building them and the construction was quite noisy and could be heard throughout the city all day. Someone made the point to me that with all the money they were spending they could plant giant trees and make a nice green space, which isn't a bad argument. However, once completed, they started to grow on me--I like the contrast they create with the rest of Sevilla. And as far as large works of art go, I think they're way cooler than the Eiffel Tower....


Stateside, I'm looking forward to seeing these little buggers:


Quincy




Pepper


 .....A lot.

6 Euros gets you into any one of the flamenco peas.It also gets you a plate of paella big enough for two people at my favorite restaurant--La Bodega in Plaza Alfalfa . Yum!  :)



I forgot to take a picture until it was all gone....


Earlier this week, 6 euros got me a ticket to see Rosario Toledo's newest work, 'Pintoresca,' and now a question of what is flamenco--can flamenco be deconstructed too far, so much that it is no longer flamenco? 






The show is described as follows:
"'Pintoresca' de Rosario Toledorefleja no slo el paralelismo temtico con el movimiento pictrico iniciado por Picasso, Braque y Gris, tambin la bsqueda de nuevos modos expresivos en el flamenco, entre los que se asienta la deconstruccin posmoderna del acontecer artstico. En Pintoresca, la deconstruccin se enfoca hacia la transmutacin de la guitarra flamenca, que toca Dani de Morn, y hacia la lectura del baile flamenco como arte total, despojado de la rigidez de pasos, palos y vestimentas al uso" (http://www.diariobahiadecadiz.com/detalle-noticia-24275)

My translation: (Rosario Toledo's Pintoresco reflects not only a parallel theme with pictorial movement initiated by Picasso, Braque and Gris, but also the search for new modes of expression in flamenco, in which postmodern deconstruction is set up by the artistic occurrence. In Pintoresca, the deconstruction focuses towards the transmutation of the flamenco guitar, played by Dani de Morn and towards the reading of flamenco dance as a total art, stripped of the use of the rigidity of steps, rhythms and costumes. )

In many ways Toledo's style of dancing in general is similar to that of the cubist artists of the 20th century. The lines she makes with her body are geometrical interpretations of more 'academic' flamenco lines and postures. Toledo builds phrases in a sort of piecemeal manner, beginning with short phrases, then deconstructing them and adding in fillers to create longer phrases, or she mixes and matches phrases and using repetition creates whole choreographies. In other words, she can take a short phrase and look at it from many angles to create a complete choreography--similar to the cubists that looked at an object from multiple angles. 

I loved the concept of the show, and the final scene which brought together projections of the images, Toledo's dancing, and a representation of Picasso's cubist guitars was visually astounding. However, the show never gave me moments to latch on to; the beginning with Toledo in a box dragged on for too long and was a bit to obvious as to its representation of breaking out of a box. The dancing combined with the drawing of a cubist drawing on a large black panel lacked dynamic. Toledo re-used tropes from previous works--for example that of 'discovering' her flamenco shoes. Maybe the problem is trying to represent a two dimensional object in time in space--is it possible? Or to represent sound in a two dimensional object? As for whether or not it is flamenco or just dance; Rosario is trained and labels herself as a flamenco dancer, but when you take away the traditional aesthetics, the traditional structure, and the cante, there's not a lot that makes it flamenco. Which is not to devalue the show; as a work of dance it's superb. Maybe if I had gone into it expecting dance and not flamenco, I wouldn't feel like it was missing something. At the least it's given me lots to think about....And speaking of dance: 







In the States: 6 euros, or the 8 or so dollar equivalent doesn't get you much in New York. A bagel with lox, not bad I guess...For a little more, I can see some of the best dance companies in the world; I am so looking forward to New York's Fall for Dance Festival. The tickets are a little more than 6 euros, but not much; $15.00 gets you a ticket to any of the shows. Here's the link with more info:

http://www.nycitycenter.org/tickets/productionNew.aspx?performanceNumber=7520
 Food starts with the freshest most flavorful ingredients at a neighborhood market. I will miss buying my produce here:



Mercado on Calle Feria


I will miss the fact that I always go to the same produce stand and the fruit sellers are so friendly, and I will miss chatting with the old ladies while I wait my turn. People are so easy-going and amiable here in Spain!

And I will miss the quality and prices of the produce. I've eaten some of the freshest and most flavorful foods here in Spain. There's a reason Spanish cooking is so simple--when you have such fresh ingredients--and AMAZING olive oil--you don't need anything more. Fruits and vegetables are still seasonal here, which gives you a greater appreciation of each item, and means they are even more flavorful. It's all about the simplicity. 



Just look at all the olive oil! Good stuff!


My favorite dishes here are: tortillitas de bacalao (salt cod cakes), salmorejo, solomillo al whisky (pork in a garlic whisky sauce), tortilla, paella negra, boquerones (fried fresh anchovies), carrillada (pork cheek), coquinas (cockles), caracoles (snails)....nevermind, I love all the food here, no point in making a list!

Here's a recipe for salmorejo, which is like gazpacho, but way better. It is a dish from Crdoba:

Put the following ingredients in a blender and blend until very creamy. The key to salmorejo is not under-blending and getting the right balance between bread and tomatoes. It should be quite thick if you got the bread/tomato ratio right. 

1 kilo of tomatoes chopped in big chunks
1 large bread bun (bollo) soaked in water (day old bread is best)
salt
1/4 cup or so of good quality olive oil
1 garlic clove
a dash or so of sherry vinegar or apple cider vinegar



My kitchen counter at lunchtime today :)

Chill and servetopped with bits of iberian ham, hard boiled egg, and a drizzle of olive oil.




Delicious!




I guess I will have to make up for the lack of amazing olive oil by putting excessive amounts of green chile on everything I eat :) And my first stop will be a breakfast burrito here:



 As I walked home last night, I had an urge to run my fingers along the walls of the buildings as I meandered through the labyrinth like streets of Sevilla, as if touching the city's walls would permanently instill my memories of these streets. I realized as I walked towards the Setasthat I've changed a lot over the year and I can never unlearn what this city has taught me, nor would I want to.

There's something really special about Sevilla's streets. To begin with, they are absolutely gorgeous. The buildings, the street lamps, the balconies with plants, the uneven cobblestones....





You never know what you're going to come across. A couple of months ago I wandered in the Barrio Santa Cruz, the oldest neighborhood in Sevilla, the only neighborhood I can still get turned around and lost in, and I came across the ruins of Roman columns. How could I have never wandered down that street before to see those? 



Columnas on Calle Marmoles (photo:http://lacomunidad.elpais.com/)



Then the sounds. Every morning I hear the guy with the bombonas (propane tanks) walk by, he sings bombooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooona. At least once a day I hear flamenco in the streets--someone singing a letra, music from a car, palmas, the notes of a guitarist practicing with his window open. Then there is the distinct sound of the persianas (parisian blinds)being opened or closed. At night, you can hear the hum of the nearby alameda--a large plaza where many people go for a drink or tapa at night. 
And then there is the sound of silence. Especially now in the summer, and even more so on weekends when most people leave the city for the beach, Sevilla is like an abandoned ghost town.  It's so silent the sun's burning rays almost seem to murmur. The silence makes you hyper aware of the few sounds there are. If you read Spanish, here's a more poetic article describing Sevilla's streets in the summer:http://www.diariodesevilla.es/article/sevilla/1573095/mucho/silencio/y/pocas/nueces.html



That's celsius, not fahrenheit....


Also the smells. You can always tell what people are cooking for lunch; nothing more distinct than puchero (traditional stew), or garlic cooking in olive oil....

Then there's the people on the street. A stout old man with cigar in hand that brings a cart full of oranges from his orchard just outside Sevilla to a quiet corner in Triana, which happened to be right near the studio I rehearsed in--best oranges I've ever had in my life. The immigrant that sells tissues on the street corner and smiles at everyone, and greets me every morning with "Hola guapa, tmate un cafe con leche conmigo," I just smile and say, "Hola." The other day I ran into a friend on her way to a dinner on a rooftop; I had every intention of going home and getting some rest, but who could say no to offer to hang out with friends with a perfect view of the city, the Giralda, the setas...You never know who you're going to run into; the flamenco world is small and many flamencos come to Sevilla from time to time--I walked out of my house to run a quick errand only to see a colleague I hadn't seen in a couple years on my street. The other day I ran in to a singer I hadn't worked with in four years--which of course meant catching up over an ice cold cruzcampo. 



The magnificent Giralda; pictures just don't do it justice.



As I spend my last week writing about what I will miss most here and what I am most looking forward to in the States, it's becoming much easier to think of things I will miss here than things I am looking forward to....But by far the people I can't wait to see are my family and friends. A year is a long time to go without seeing immediate family. 



Candid photo around the Blumenfeld dinner table...


 
"La gran suerte del ser humano es encontrarse con buenos maestros...

me inculc desde el principio lo que es la tica de la danza antes de la esttica."

--Antonio Gades


("The best luck a human being can have is finding good teachers...from the beginning I was instilled with what are the ethics of dance before the aesthetic." --Antonio Gades)



Candid photo from Manuela Rios' class. 


I've been incredibly lucky in my life with my dance teachers (and academic teachers) from my first ballet classes with Karen Alwin who was strict as can be and full of tough love to my teachers this year who have taught me more than I could have imagined about flamenco. I went to my last class with Manuela Rios today; it never ceases to amaze me how much I learn in one class with her. 

I've been lucky enough to find myself with teachers who give all their knowledge without holding anything back, who teach with love, and want to see their students grow to their fullest capacities. I'm looking forward to seeing my teachers and mentors back in the states and I will miss the incredible teachers I've had here this year. 




Eating cake and talking about flamenco one day after class :)
In general, I will miss being surrounded by flamenco and flamencos, there's really no substitute for that. Although the music, videos, and books are all more accessible than they used to be thanks to Spotify and youtube, it's the conversations and experiences that really helped me grow. For example, the quote at the beginning of this post is from a video Manuela let me borrow last week; she happened to have the video with her and thought I would like it; then we talked about it the next week once I'd watched it. Often someone will mention a song so and so sings, and I go home, look it up, and study it. It's going to be hard to keep studying the cante and history without the sort of informal discussions about flamenco that happen on a daily basis. 



Ironically, I am looking forward to being surrounded by other forms of art. Museums, jazz music, blues, modern dance, performance art, theater, etc., abound like nowhere else in New York, and I plan on taking full advantage of that, budget permitting. 



Greek and Roman Wing at the Metropolitan Museum in NYC


 
"In the realm of ideas everything depends on enthusiasm... in the real world all rests on perseverance.
--Goethe






Dancing at Pea Nio Alfalfa earlier this year. 




then again,

"Everything you can imagine is real."





--Pablo Picasso




To say the least this year has been a gift. I have been able to focus on my dancing completely. It's been an almost surreal year immersing myself in flamenco. Along with taking classes daily, rehearsing, studying the cante/history/dance, I have had no other obligations. The year was all about me and my dancing and for that I am so thankful and so lucky. Now, it's back to reality. This last week I have already been rehearsing for a show I was hired to perform in this fall in NYC. That means that I no longer spend all my time in the studio working on my choreographies and on improving my technique. I can't complain, it's a great opportunity to work on something immediately upon arriving in the U.S. and I am learning from the experience. 





Every gig and show is an opportunity to learn and grow but in a different way than studying in the studio. As much as I love being in this world here where I am completely submerged in studying flamenco, the whole point in studying and creating is to perform and to pass on what I've learned through teaching.  



Nevertheless I have to make sure that even with all the work opportunities that arise I continue to work on my own dancing and dances and continue studying the music as I have been here. I have so many ideas and I will need lots of perseverance to make them reality. I've already noticed this week that it's hard to do that when you spend all day in the studio learning choreographies for a show. This coming year will be a huge challenge--my first year working full time as a freelance flamenco dancer.  Balancing working on my own projects with 'outside' work will not be easy. I'm both excited and nervous and ready for the challenge--there's so much I want to do and share!  


You can follow my events, performances, classes and lectures here:

http://www.aliceblumenfeld.com/







