From The Colbert Report to astronomer Annie Jump Cannon, here's a look at this week's search stars.

The presidency is just my day job
Being the President of the United State is no easy task, but Barack Obama may have just faced his toughest test yet...a seat on The Colbert Report. This is the Commander-in-Chiefs third time on the show, but its still no cakewalk with every topic up for grabsincluding Obamas less than ideal approval ratings and his graying hair. Obama proved himself up for the challenge, though, kicking Colbert off his segment and making it his own.

Not only does Obama moonlight as a comedianit turns out he can also code. At a White House event with 30 middle school students, the President kicked off Hour of Code, a program that encourages young people to develop their computer and software programming skills. With a little help from one of the kids, Obama wrote a single line of JavaScript, moveForward(100), to move the tutorials character 100 pixels to the right, and in the process becoming the first U.S. president to write a computer program.


Winners and losers
Competition on The Voice is heating up; the three finalists were revealed this week. But theres a twist in the shows seventh season: to spice things up, its creators introduced a new wildcard spot, bringing the total number of potential finalists to four. Now the nine remaining contestants who didnt make it to the top three will duke it out for that fourth spot and a shot at singing glory. 

While The Voice contestants still have a chance to take home the grand prize, other stars were left out in the cold this week when the Golden Globe nominations included several snubs. Names left off the selection sheet were Angelina Jolie and her upcoming film Unbroken, Christopher Nolan and his much-hyped Interstellar, and Bradley Cooper, who gained 40 pounds to portray Chris Kyle in the biopic film American Sniper. Oh wellthere's still the Oscars. Meanwhile, movies Birdman and Boyhood snapped up seven and five nominations, respectivelyand the TV category is staying interesting with nods for several Netflix original series, Amazons first appearance with Transparent, and two surprise nominations for the CWs quirky Jane the Virgin.

The sky above
This week, searchers spent a good chunk of their time looking up. The weather was top of mind as the Pineapple Expressno, not the filmhit the San Francisco Bay Area, causing flooding and power outages. The phenomenon gets its name from its origins in the waters near Hawaii, a.k.a. the Pineapple State, where it develops before heading towards the U.S Pacific Coast.  

Even for those of us trapped indoors, searchers got a chance to look at the stars...on our homepage at least. Searchers looked for more information about astronomer Annie Jump Cannon after a Google doodle marked her 151st birthday. Cannonwho was deaf for most of her adult life, and often overshadowed by her colleague Edward C. Pickeringwas instrumental in the development of the Harvard Classification system, which categorizes stars by their temperature (whether or not they were nominated for a Golden Globe).




Tip of the week
Need to find something in the apps on your Android phone? Now you can ask your Google app for helpeven if its in another app. Just say Ok Google and then search YouTube for holiday decorating ideas or search Tumblr for Taylor Swift and jump straight to those results within the other app (if you have it installed). 

And come back next week for Google's Year in Searcha review of the people, moments, and events that captured the world's attention.

Posted by Jenise Araujo, Communications Associate, who searched for [comedian-in-chief] and [team adam].
 Every year, we reflect on the moments that made us laugh, smile from ear to ear, or stay gripped to our screens in our annual Year in Search. In 2014, we were struck by the death of a beloved comedian, and watched news unfold about a horrific plane crash and a terrifying disease. We were captivated by the beautiful game, and had fun with birds, a bucket of ice, and a frozen princess.  

Watch our video to rediscover the events, people and topics that defined 2014: 


Wishing the genie goodbye
You're only given a little spark of madness. You mustn't lose it. The passing of beloved comedian and actor Robin Williams shook the world, bringing many people online to search for more information and to rememberand putting Williams in the #1 spot on our global trends charts. There was even an uptick in searches related to depression tests and mental health in the days following his death. We revisited his iconic roles in movies like Aladdin and Dead Poets Society and found solace in gifs and memes that captured Williams spirit.

All the worlds a stage
Nothing brings people together like sports, and 2014 had one of the biggest athletic events in recent memory. The World Cup in Brazil had its fair share of unforgettable moments and had everyone glued to their TVs and mobile devices all summer. From Luis Suarezs bite heard around the world, to Tim Howard's superman performance vs. Belgium, to Germanys incredible run to their fourth title, the competition certainly lived up to its reputation and topped the charts. 

While sports brought people together, so did a good cause. This year, awareness for Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis, better known as ALS or Lou Gehrigs Disease, reached an all-time high around the world due to the viral ALS Ice Bucket Challenge. As celebrities and everyday people alike braved a bucket of ice cold water for a cause, donations to help find a cure for the illness hit almost $100 million.


Into the unknown
How could a plane just vanish into thin air? In the wake of the disappearance of Malaysia Airlines Flight 370, that question propelled the mystery to the global trends charts. As the investigation continued on the ground and online, people stayed hopeful for a happy ending despite the dim odds: searches for mh370 found outnumbered searches for mh370 lost.

Heres the full list of our top 10 global trending searches:



You can find more on these top searches and more at google.com/2014 

Explore the stories from the year, one chapter at a time
On our Year in Search site, you can take an in-depth look at the stories that made 2014 unforgettable. From the rise of the selfie, to understanding if we search for how more than why, each chapter shares a glimpse into the people and events that drove this year forward.




We've also made it easier to find the trending topics of the year directly from Google Search. For the first time, a simple search for [google 2014] will give you a peek at what made the top trending lists from around the world. And you can follow more insights from the year with #YearInSearch. So take a moment to appreciate what this year had to offer. Itll be 2015 before you know it. 



Posted by +Amit Singhal,Senior Vice President, Search

 It's the season of giving, and there are a lot of ways to giveby donating, by volunteering, by surprising a stranger with a random act of kindness. And we're joining in to help spread the holiday cheer. This month, Google.org is giving more than $15 million in grants to organizations using technology to address some of the worlds biggest problems. From San Francisco to Western Africa, these organizations are making a direct impact on people around the world, every day. 

One of our grants will go to Feeding America. Each year, billions of pounds of surplus food are sent to landfills, while 49 million Americans (including one in five children) go hungry. Our grant will help support their newest food rescue initiative called the Online Marketplace, a program that connects local retail and foodservice businesses who have excess food to those in need. Feeding America serves 3.3 billion meals annually and the Online Marketplace is projected to lead to the recovery of an additional 740 million meals, significantly reducing food waste while giving more families access to food. 

Two of our other grantees are working on the front lines to help ensure lives aren't lost to preventable diseases. Nexleaf Analytics works to get life-saving vaccines to children in India and Mozambique by preserving these vaccines before they spoil by installing low-cost refrigerator sensors in clinics. Malaria No More is fighting to save lives by better understanding the spread of malaria using newly available mobile data to map malaria cases and how they are being treated.

To learn more about additional nonprofits were supporting through these grants, and to see how you can get involved with their efforts, visit g.co/happyholidays and see our slideshow below: 

    .carousel-container {
    position: relative;
    padding-bottom: 70%;
    height: 0;
}

.carousel-container iframe {
    position: absolute;
    top:0;
    left: 0;
    width: 100%;
    height: 100%;
}      

     







These are only part of our annual philanthropic efforts. Over the course of the year, we strive to make the world a little bit better through our technology and giving programs, including more than $100 million in grants, $1 billion in technology resources, and 80,000+ volunteer hours donated to causes around the world.

We're inspired by all the people out there who are working to make a differencewhether it's one of these organizations or simply one person doing a good deed for another. We're glad to do our part spreading some love this holiday season, and look forward to seeing more world-changing work in 2015. 

Posted by Jacquelline Fuller, Director, Google.org  After 23 days of preparation, the elves are finally ready for Santas annual journey around the globe. Theyve taught each other how to say "Santa Claus" in Swedish, guided their friends through mazes with code,  brushed up on their geography, and learned about organizations making a difference worldwide. Its been a busy month, but Santas sleigh is now ready for lift-off!




The elves brushed up on coding fundamentals with blockly maze games






The elves decorated their trees with ornaments about organizations making a difference


Each stop on Santas journey offers more to explorediscover 360-degree imagery, Wikipedia snippets, geography facts, and updates on how far Santas current location is from yours (take noteSantas path is not a direct one!). Come back and visit google.com/santatracker throughout the night for more surprises, like sleigh selfies or a latitude and longitude game to deliver presents.




Follow Santa on any screendesktop, phone, tablet, or TV

If youre on the ho-ho-go, download the Santa Tracker App for Android to keep track of Santa on your phone or tablet. With the Android app, watch Santas journey on your TV using Chromecast, or on your wrist with Android Wear (especially handy when wrapping last-minute gifts). And, you can always search for Santa on www.google.com or on Google Maps, and get real-time location updates with Google Now in the Google App.





Santas available at the flick of the wrist with Android Wear

Santas got a long and exciting night ahead of him before heading back to the North Pole. Grab some eggnog, set out the cookies, and join Google Maps on Google+, Facebook and Twitter to #tracksanta! 


Posted by Brendan Kenny, Reindeer Platform Engineer Last Wednesday Sony began contacting a number of companies, including Google, to ask if wed be able to make their movie, "The Interview,"available online. We'd had a similar thought and were eager to helpthough given everything thats happened, the security implications were very much at the front of our minds.  

Of course it was tempting to hope that something else would happen to ensure this movie saw the light of day. But after discussing all the issues, Sony and Google agreed that we could not sit on the sidelines and allow a handful of people to determine the limits of free speech in another country (however silly the content might be).  

So starting at 10 a.m. PST in the U.S., you can rent or buy "The Interview" on Google Play and YouTube Movies. It will also be available to Xbox Video customers and via www.seetheinterview.com.

Update 3:44p.m. PST: "The Interview" is now also available in Canada.

Posted by David Drummond, SVP Corporate Development and Chief Legal Officer 2015 may have just begun, but search is already full steam ahead. From a tragedy in Paris to buzz around the new Calvin Klein ads, read on to find out how the year got started on search. 

Je suis Charlie
The world was left in a state of disbelief on Wednesday after three gunmen stormed into the Paris office of Charlie Hebdo, a satirical news magazine, and killed 12 people, including the papers editor Stphane Charb Charbonnier. The shooters targeted the publication in response to satirical cartoons depicting the Prophet Mohammed. Interest in the outlet reached an all-time high on the web and people looked for more information about Je suis Charlie (I am Charlie), a slogan adopted by free speech supporters in the wake of the shootings. A manhunt for the suspects finally ended Friday in a standoff at a printing company just outside of Paris, in which the two brothers behind the attacks were killed. Meanwhile, France mourns what is being called the countrys worst terrorist attack in generations.

The goals we cant promise to keep
You know what they saynew year, new you. Searchers took to the Internet this week to find out how they could turn their new years resolutions into reality. And the usual suspects of diet and weight loss were on everyones list. The Dash Diet made it onto the trends charts after it took the number one spot on The U.S. News & World Reports annual rankings of the best diets. Created by physicians to help treat high blood pressure, DASH (Dietary Approaches to Stop Hypertension) emphasizes fruits, veggies, whole grains and low sodium. So long, carbs; it was nice knowing you. 

Were working to get our bodies photo-shoot ready, but Justin Bieber has beaten us to the punch. Beliebers everywhere were left drooling over a new Calvin Klein underwear ad. Meanwhile, Justins campaign co-star, Dutch model Lara Stone, is getting some unwanted attention: she received several death threats from Biebers fans.


Looking ahead
The years not even two weeks old and people are already excited for whats to come. If you blinked, you probably missed tickets for Coachella 2015, the star-studded desert music festival. The concert sold out after a mere 40 minutes! And comic book fans (and Paul Rudd loyalists) went into a frenzy when Marvel released the trailer for their latest superhero flick, Ant Man. Our take? This smells like a Millennial version of Honey I Shrunk the Kids.

Finally, while many were looking ahead to this years entertainment, others took the time to remember a legend. This week, searchers were feeling sentimental for Elvis Presleys 80th birthday and revisited the Kings classic songs and memorable white suits.

Tip of the week
Dont let this be another year of resolution failure: use Google to set reminders for all of your goals. Just say Ok Google, remind me to go to the gym when youre ready to commit to 365 days of sweat. 

Posted by Jenise Araujo, Communications Associate, who searched for [heartbreak hotel] and [gym discounts]. Often the hardest part of traveling is navigating the local language. If you've ever asked for "pain" in Paris and gotten funny looks, confused "embarazada" with "embarrassed" in Mexico, or stumbled over pronunciation pretty much anywhere, you know the feeling. Now Google Translate can be your guide in new ways. Weve updated the Translate app on Android and iOS to transform your mobile device into an even more powerful translation tool. 

Instant translation with Word Lens 
The Translate app already lets you use camera mode to snap a photo of text and get a translation for it in 36 languages. Now, were taking it to the next level and letting you instantly translate text using your cameraso its way easier to navigate street signs in the Italian countryside or decide what to order off a Barcelona menu. While using the Translate app, just point your camera at a sign or text and youll see the translated text overlaid on your screeneven if you don't have an Internet or data connection. 

This instant translation currently works for translation from English to and from French, German, Italian, Portuguese, Russian and Spanish, and were working to expand to more languages.


Have an easier conversation using the Translate app 
When talking with someone in an unfamiliar language, conversations can... get... realllllllly... sloowwww. While weve had real-time conversation mode on Android since 2013, our new update makes the conversation flow faster and more naturally. 

Starting today, simply tap the mic to start speaking in a selected language, then tap the mic again, and the Google Translate app will automatically recognize which of the two languages are being spoken, letting you have a more fluid conversation. For the rest of the conversation, you wont need to tap the mic againit'll be ready as you need it. Asking for directions to the Rive Gauche, ordering bacalhau in Lisbon, or chatting with your grandmother in her native Spanish just got a lot faster. 


These updates will be coming to both Android and iOS, rolling out over the next few days. This is the first time some of these advanced features, like camera translations and conversation mode, will be available for iOS users.

More than 500 million people use Google Translate every month, making more than 1 billion translations a day to more easily communicate and access information across languages. Todays updates take us one step closer to turning your phone into a universal translator and to a world where language is no longer a barrier to discovering information or connecting with each other. 

Posted by Barak Turovsky, Product Lead, Google Translate Every year since 2010, President Obama has turned to YouTube and Google after his State of the Union speech to answer questions that are top of mind for the American people. Asked through YouTube video submissions or live via Google+ Hangouts, these questions always bring an interesting perspective to the issues the president addresses in his speech. This year were doing something weve never done before: bringing a handful of YouTube creators directly to the White House to talk with the president in person in a live broadcast on Thursday, January 22.

YouTube creators Bethany Mota, GloZell Green and Hank Green will interview President Obama about the top concerns facing them and their audiences. Over the next few days, the creators will ask you to share the questions you have for the president, some of which may be asked during the interview. In years past, people across the United States have used this interview to ask important questions about jobs, immigration and even Valentines Day. Use #YouTubeAsksObama on social media to suggest issues that are important to you or any questions that are on your mind.


Finally, dont forget to tune in on January 20 at 9 p.m. EST to watch the State of the Union address, as well as the Republican response, live on YouTube.

Posted by Steve Grove, Director, News Lab This Monday, January 19, were celebrating the life and legacy of Dr. Martin Luther King and marking the national MLK Day of Service. Its a holiday thats especially meaningful this year: 2015 marks the 50th anniversary of the Selma to Montgomery March, and its a time when civil rights is at the forefront of our national conversation. 

Next Monday, Googlers across the country are heeding the call to give back to their communities, and we hope youll join us. Take some time to honor Dr. King by volunteering in your communityyou can find opportunities at All for Good. In the meantime, heres a look at some of the projects Googlers will be participating in, and the reasons why theyve made the commitment to serve this MLK Day. 

Dona Bellow, a legal assistant, will be helping middle school students in New York with computer science and STEM activities. She says, "doing something to help further the goals of someone else is reclaiming power: power to choose love over conflict, power to recognize and celebrate our differences, power to achieve an equitable outcome for all. 

In California, Googlers will be volunteering with the Northern California Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. Community Foundation  as it hosts a full day of festivities including the annual parade/march in San Francisco. Eliana Murillo, who is head of multicultural marketing and will be participating in Mondays event, told us that giving a hand to those in need helps build compassion and understanding of the diversity of life experiences. 

Leadership coordinator Aerica Banks says that she serves to break down barriers and build community. We are all able to serve, and we all stand to benefit. She helped organize volunteers in our Atlanta office for the Atlanta Food Bank Kids In Need program event, which provides school supplies free of charge to teachers in low-income schools. 

And Fabian Elliott, from our ads team in Chicago, helped organize Google volunteers in the Windy City to help middle school students practice compassion by writing letters to children struggling with terminal illnesses. He says, Even the most obscure challenges of the world impact each of us at varying levels...Its as simple as doing something that you love that supports a cause you believe in. What are you waiting for? 

Dr. King said: "Life's most persistent and urgent question is: 'What are you doing for others?'" Googler volunteers are joining in the national efforts to honor the legacy of Dr. Kingand we know that a commitment to service goes well beyond Monday. So we also support projects throughout the year to help to deepen our connections with local communities. Together, lets make Martin Luther King Jr. Day a day on, not a day off! 

Posted by Johanne Sterling, on behalf of the Black Googlers Network and GooglersGive This time of year may be cold and dark, but there was plenty to brighten our daysand keep us searchingthis week. 


Top of the pack
El Capitan is a stunning sight on a normal daythe sheer granite face rising above the valley in Yosemite National Park is hard to miss. But this week, people around the world had an extra reason to keep their eyes on El Cap: two mountain climbers, Tommy Caldwell and Kevin Jorgeson, made history on Wednesday when they completed the first ever free climb of the 3,000-foot wall. Searches for [el capitan climb] went up more than 1,000% as people looked to learn more about the feat.

Back on firm ground, Ohio State beat #2-ranked Oregon in an upset victory in the College Football Playoff championship. Though the Buckeyes may have won on the field, the Ducks still held the top of the search charts, with more than 2 million searches on Monday. People were also searching for the teams top players, especially Ohio State quarterback Cardale Jones, who announced this week that he had decided to stay with the team for another year, passing on the NFL draft. (His Oregon counterpart in Mondays game, Marcus Mariota, made the opposite call.)

Glitter and glamour
Were officially in peak entertainment awards season. The 72nd and final Golden Globes took place on Sunday with hosts Amy Poehler and Tina Fey. Of particular interest on search were Jane the Virgin and its star Gina Rodriguez, whose win was considered a surprise and whose speech was considered a win, and The Honourable Womans Maggie Gyllenhaal, who gave a quietly passionate speech about women in Hollywood. And Michael Keaton, who won best actor in a drama for the film Birdman, brought some company with him to search, as well as the ceremony: his son and best friend, Sean Douglas, who spiked in search after Keaton sang his praises in his acceptance speech.

Then just when wed finished analyzing the Globes winners and losers, the Oscar nominations were announced, meaning we officially have just over a month to catch up on all the films before the ceremony on February 22. Top nominees include Birdman, The Grand Budapest Hotel, and Boyhood. (Someone get Sean Douglas a tux rental for February.) Want help with your Oscar pool? Theres no telling which film will win, but over the past year, the title of top film in Search is a close race between Boyhood and The Grand Budapest Hotel. 


Finally, in addition to all the glitz on the red carpet, there was a different kind of glitter in search this week. A start-up business that lets you ship your enemies glitter went viral, giving you a new way to show that special (un)loved one how you feel. Millions of clicks and a website crash later, the founder is now saying he wants to quit. All that glitters is, apparently, not gold.

Tip of the week
Time to catch up on all those movies you havent seen. Just say Ok Google then movie times or Selma movies times and youll get a list of theaters and films playing near you. 

Posted by Emily Wood, Managing Editor, who searched for [lucy parks and rec] and [spanish homophones] Heres a side of search trends to go along with your Friday.  Read on to find out what got people talkingand searchingthis week.

Deflate-gate and other scandals
Super Bowl drama is already here, and its not even February 1. After the New England Patriots dominated the Indianapolis Colts 45-7 to win the AFC Championship, news broke out that 11 out of the 12 balls used by New England quarterback Tom Brady were under inflated, which is a no-no in the NFL. The league has strict rules about the air pressure in game day balls since alterations could give one team an advantage. Both Brady and head coach Bill Belichick are singing Shaggy's greatest hit It Wasnt Me, so well all have to wait and see how the mystery unfolds.

On the other football field, U.S. Womens National Soccer Team goalkeeper Hope Solo is back in trouble with the law after she and her husband, Jerramy Stevens, were pulled over for suspicions of driving under the influence. The kicker? This all happened while Stevens was driving the U.S. team van, which promptly resulted in a 30-day suspension for Solo. This event comes just seven days after charges of domestic violence were dropped against the athlete. 



The last laugh
On Tuesday, President Obama delivered his sixth State of the Union address to outline his legislative agenda for the year ahead. Then, on Thursday, the President took questions about his remarks from YouTube Creators. While topics like education, the economy and foreign relations got people searching, the Internet had a field day after Obama dropped the proverbial mic at the expense of his Republican counterparts during his speech. In the midst of his talk, Obama stated I have no more campaigns to run, generating applause from some of his opponents. But Obama -- not one to be the butt of a joke -- responded as smooth as butter: I know because I won both of them. Burn. 


Not what you expected
Search left people salivating after news that milks favorite cookie, the Oreo, was getting a new flavor inspired by Valentines Day. Confection-maker Nabisco decided to bring cupcake and cookie together in holy matrimony with the launch of a red velvet version of their snack on February 2. And as some people tried to satisfy their sweet tooth, it looks like Tiger Woods may have lost his...literally. The famed golfer made an appearance at his girlfriend Lindsey Vonns World Cup skiing race in Italy sporting a missing tooth, causing a stir on the web as people tried to find an explanation for his gap-toothed smile.

Meanwhile, things took a turn for the worse at the happiest place on earth. Disneyland was linked to an outbreak of more than 50 cases of the measles. Health officials are declaring the park safe for those who have their immunizations, but the situation has drummed up more controversy around the anti-vaccination movement. 

Tip of the Week
Still sticking to your diet resolution? If you need a little help knowing the number of calories youre eating just ask, Ok Google, how many calories are in an avocado? to stay in tip-top shape. 

Posted by Jenise Araujo, Communications Associate, who searched for [hope for hope] and [all scandals that end in -gate] Its been nearly five years since we offered to build a fiber-optic network in one U.S. city as an experiment  and were met with overwhelming enthusiasm. Now, Google Fiber is live in Kansas City, Provo and Austin, and we've started to see how gigabit Internet, with speeds up to 100 times faster than todays basic broadband, can transform cities. It can give them new platforms for economic development and new ways of using technology to improve life for their citizens. And, around the country, it seems to be catching on.

Check out the Kansas City Startup Village and Provo learn-how-to-code hub DevMountain. Take a look at the work of a geneticist whose speedy connection could one day help newborns in intensive care, or how one city's network is connecting a high school classroom to an underwater microscope so students can study oceanic life in the Pacific... from Chattanooga, Tenn. There are many more stories like thisstories about how people are using gigabit internet to spark innovation, inspire creativity, and collaborate in ways they simply couldn't before. And we want to see even more.

So, today, were happy to announce that Google Fiber is coming to 18 cities across four new metro areas: Atlanta, Charlotte, Nashville, and Raleigh-Durham. We cant wait to see what people and businesses across the Southeast U.S. do with gigabit speeds. 




Bringing Google Fiber to these cities is a long-term investment. Weve been working closely with city leaders over the past year on a joint planning process to get their communities ready for Google Fiberand now the really hard work begins. Our next step is to work with cities to create a detailed map of where we can put our thousands of miles of fiber, using existing infrastructure such as utility poles and underground conduit, and making sure to avoid things like gas and water lines. Then a team of surveyors and engineers will hit the streets to fill in missing details. Once were done designing the network (which we expect to wrap up in a few months), well start construction.  





Were also continuing to explore bringing fiber to five additional metro areasPhoenix, Portland, Salt Lake City, San Antonio and San Jose, and will have updates on these potential Fiber cities later this year.  

Today, we aren't the only ones talking about gigabit broadband. From the White House to main street, a chorus of new voices is standing up for speed. Just last week during the State of the Union, the President called for faster networks so that innovators and entrepreneurs can build the next big idea. New research from the Fiber to the Home Council shows gigabit networks are contributing billions of dollars in economic growth. Communities across America are demanding more speed for their own homes and businesses, and were going to keep doing our part to help.

Posted by Dennis Kish, Vice President, Google Fiber Between a spookily resilient cat, and a new bunch of ghostbusters, there was a lot of (paranormal) activity in search this week:

Its a great day for a ball game
People across the country are gearing up for this weekends Super Bowl, starting with the basics: When is the Super Bowl? Theyre also researching some of the major characters of Sundays face-offnamely Seahawks running back Marshawn Lynch and Patriots coach Bill Belichickand getting the jump on the ads on YouTube (youve already watched more than 100 million minutes worth!), including a controversial GoDaddy ad. Plus, no game day is complete without the food: top recipes searched this week include [easy chili], [fajitas], [baked chicken wings] and [barbacoa]. Dont forget to tune in to @Google over the weekend for more trends!

With all the football hubbub, people still found time to search for other sports happenings. Last Friday, baseball fans mourned the death of Ernie Banks, a.k.a. Mr. Cub, a beloved shortstop and Hall of Famer. And that same night, Klay Thompson of the Golden State Warriors scored a record-breaking 37 points in one quarter.

Who you gonna call?
An all-female Ghostbusters, thats who. Rumors about next years reboot of the 80s classic have been looming over us like the Stay-Puft Marshmallow Man for a while now, but now its all but confirmed that the 2016 film will feature Kristen Wiig, Melissa McCarthy, Leslie Jones and Kate McKinnon. Searches for each of the actresses spiked faster than you could say proton pack, and Kate McKinnon was the #2 search overall on Tuesday. In other leading-lady casting news, Harry Potter alum Emma Watson announced that shell play Belle in Disneys forthcoming live-action Beauty and the Beast.


Tempest in a teacup
Headed into this week, the weather was on everyones mind, at least on the East Coast. Searches for terms like [weather], [blizzard 2015], [juno], [National Weather Service] and [weather NYC] were all hotor, cold, as the case may be. People were also looking for info on the [mta], [nj transit] and [school closings]. Though the storm in New York amounted to little more than an excuse for a snow day, it dumped up to three feet of snow in parts of New England. Definitely enough to merit all those pre-storm searches!

And moving from the blizzard to the desert, Michelle Obama made headlines when she appeared in Riyadh to mark the death of King Abdullahwithout a veil or headscarf. Searches spiked as people tried to find out if the First Lady intended her attire as a political statement. Others noted that shes certainly not the first to go bareheaded: Hillary Clinton, Angela Merkel, Laura Bush and Condoleezza Rice have, too.

One down, eight to go
File under stranger than fiction: [zombie cat] was trending in search this week after a 23-month old kitten in Florida seemingly came back from the dead. After being hit by a car and buried, Bart proved the old nine lives adage true when he reappeared in a neighbors yard five days later. Wed say that after his trials, Bart deserves a cozy new bed at home, like a Serenity Cat Pod from Skymall, but, well 

Tip of the week
Dont show up empty-handed on Sunday: say Ok Google, remind me to pick up guacamole when Im at Safeway and the Google app will help you be a good guest. 

Posted by Emily Wood, Managing Editor, who searched this week for [garden district walking tour new orleans] and [kitten ducklings]
 From a super brawl to a giant lion, yesterdays big game was filled with many notable moments. Thats true on YouTube and Google toopeople watched more game-day ads and teaser videos on YouTube than ever before, YouTube hosted its first-ever halftime show, and a throwback PSA became a top trending search term. Heres a look at the top trending searches, videos and more across Google and YouTube:

Battle of the brands 
As the battle for football supremacy was taking place on the field, a very different one was raging across the country: Which ad would reign supreme? Whether via smartphone, tablet or laptop, people spent nearly 4 million hours watching game-day ads and teaser videos on YouTubeup from 2.2 million hours from this time last year. 


This years most popular ads came from a wide range of advertisersnewcomers and veterans alike. But one things for certainpuppies, pranks, and Kim Kardashian continue to break the Internet. Here are some of the ads that scored big on YouTube so far:


Tom Brady and Missy Elliott dominate on search
While people turned to YouTube to watch the ads, people turned to Google to search for everything from how old is Tom Brady to buffalo chicken dip recipes to Katy Perry Halftime performance. Before kickoff, people asked Google Why did John Travolta call Idina Adele'?a throwback to John Travoltas infamous mispronunciation of National Anthem performer Idina Menzel's name at the 2014 Oscars. Searchers were also interested in Menzels performance, asking How long will it take Idina to sing the National Anthem?

Tom Brady, Marshawn Lynch and Russell Wilson were the top three searched players before, during and after the game. Thanks to some standout in-game performances, by the end they were sharing the spotlight with Rob Gronkowski and Chris Matthews (replacing Richard Sherman and Kam Chancellor). And MVP Tom Brady wasnt just a winner on the fieldhe captured the title of Most Searched Quarterback in every state except for the Seahawks home Washington.


Of course, for many people the halftime show is the highlight of the night, and Katy Perrys performance delivered. She came in on a lion, danced with sharks and went out on a starone that was, for some, reminiscent of NBCs old The More You Know PSAs. The phrase "the more you know" spiked 190x in search for the 10 minutes after Katys starry flight. And although Missy Elliott was a late addition to the halftime lineup, she was a popular topic in search. Top questions related to Missy Elliott included When was Missy Elliott popular? and How does Katy Perry know Missy Elliott?

A very YouTube halftime show 
For the first time ever, this year YouTube hosted a halftime show produced by Collective Digital Studio, with the help of more than 25 YouTube creators including Epic Meal Time's Harley Morenstein as host, Rhett & Link, Toby Turner, Freddie Wong and Tyler Ward. From Kurt Hugo Schneiders "Epic Patty Cake Song" to the Elephants Toothpaste science experiment with Science Bob, the show delivered a one-of-a-kind experience for YouTube fans. 

With the last touchdown scored, were taking votes for your favorite ad, so visit our AdBlitz channel to cast your ballot before voting ends on February 9 at 11:59pm ET. 

Whether youre a loyal 12th man or a Boston fan for life, chances are you turned to YouTube and Google to watch your favorite ads, answer your questions or witness a new generation of halftime entertainment. Were happy we could be a part of your game. 

Posted by Riki Nakasuji, Sports & Gaming Sponsorships Manager, YouTube (Cross-posted on the Google for EDU Blog)

When Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander people need support, they turn to their daughters. In a culture whose history goes back 50,000 years, 70 young girls are using technology to give their families a new way to call for help in emergencies. Last year, Engineers Without Borders Australia taught a group of students to build an emergency response beacon using basic hardware and some code to transmit a users location and distress message via radio.

Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander people make up less than 3 percent of Australias population, and theyve historically faced discrimination in society, including in education. According to the Australian Bureau of Statistics, dropout rates exceed 60 percent in certain regions and Aboriginal students are, on average, 2.5 years behind their peers in scientific and mathematical literacy. The problem is often compounded for girls, who tend to be left out of educational opportunities.

So Engineers Without Borders Australia (EWBA) set out to close the educational and digital divide, developing a program which brings together Aboriginal and non-Aboriginal girls to create emergency beacons from scratch by coding a Raspberry Pi to work with an LED, GPS module and FM transmitter. It will also work through issues of stereotyping and discrimination, and help the girls to better understand each others worlds.

This is just one example of an organization doing extraordinary work to make computer science (CS) education available to women and other underrepresented minorities. Computer science has tremendous potential to make a real difference in the worldbut only when more people can access and harness it.

Thats the idea behind Googles RISE Awards, through which we support organizations in their work to inspire students around the world with CS. Since 2010, more than 200 organizations have received an award, and this year, 37 organizations are receiving a cumulative $1.5 million to keep this vital effort humming along. Our partners facilitate programs and activities including teaching girls about the intersection of coding and music production in California, promoting computational thinking through game-design in Mexico, and inspiring children in Brazil to program alongside their parents.

This year, three nonprofits will receive a new RISE Partnership Awarda grant to work with one or two partner organizations to help grow their CS outreach to a wider scale. One of the three is Engineers Without Borders Australia, which plans to work with MEETan organization with expertise on how coding skills can build relationships and break down stereotypesto integrate their curriculum to reach up to 2,000 girls across Australia, including in Aboriginal communities.

With access to hands-on CS education, the Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander girls are preparing themselves for the digital economy, contributing to the diversity of our futures technology, and taking concrete steps to rise above the inequities their community has faced for decades. Theyre not alone. We hope that through the RISE Awards and our other efforts to support diversity in technology, these girls and others like them can have an even greater impact. We cant wait to see it.

Posted by Roxana Shirkhoda, K12/Pre-University Education Outreach From a shark with two left feet to a sequel that has everyone buzzing, heres what trended on search this week.

Havent we been here before?
This past Monday, the U.S. turned to its dirt-dwelling psychic, the groundhog, to determine if it was finally time to put our snow boots back in the closet. Searches for Did the groundhog see his shadow? hit 100,000+ while other questions like What is a groundhog? also peaked on February 2. So did little Punxsutawney Phil see his shadow and curse us with another six weeks of winter? In fact, he did. Can we get a do-over?

Sports news 101
Now that the dust has settled from this past Sundays Super Bowl, there are several things we can take away from the game. First, Tom Brady might be the best quarterback in football history after winning his fourth championshiphe was also the most searched Superbowl quarterback. Second, either Seahawks head coach Pete Carroll made the worst call ever or New Englands victory is all part of a conspiracy (you decide). Last but not least, Left Shark put on the best half-time performance of all time with help from Katy Perry. The Internet fell hook, line and sinker for the choreographically inept shark. Searchers were also curious about Missy Elliot after her appearance in the show.

Model Ashley Graham also made a splash this week. Dont know her? You will soon enough. Graham is set to appear Sport Illustrateds famous swimsuit issue, making her the first plus-size model to be featured in an ad in the magazine.





Back in the headlines
The spotlight is back on Lance Armstrong and its not helping the cyclists already damaged reputation. Back in December, Armstrong and his girlfriend Anna Hansen were involved in a hit-and-run accident involving parked cars. At the time, Hansen said she was driving the car during the incidentbut it turns out Armstrong was actually the one behind the wheel, leading to two misdemeanor charges, rising interest on trends and more embarrassment for the star.

Iconic and reclusive writer Harper Lee topped the search charts when news emerged that she will be releasing a new book, a sequel to To Kill A Mockingbird, in July. The book comes 55 years after Lees first novel and the writer has a long history of avoiding the spotlight: She hasnt granted any interviews or public appearances since Mockingbird came out. While many fans are rejoicing, the surprising announcement is leaving others skeptical. Lee turns 89 this April and is reportedly in ill health, leading some people to feel that the author might be being taken advantage of. Well have to wait and see how this storyas well as the one in Go Set A Watchmanunfolds.

Tip of the week
Ready for the long Presidents Day weekend? Look up flights for a last-minute escape. Just say, Ok Google, show me flights from San Francisco, to find where you can go to enjoy the day off.

Posted by Jenise Araujo, Communications Associate, who searched this week for [whistle pig] and [a girl named scout] Think of the last time you searched on Google for health information. Maybe you heard a news story about gluten-free diets and pulled up the Google app to ask, "What is celiac disease?" Maybe a co-worker shook your hand and later found out she had pink eye, so you looked up pink eye to see whether its contagious. Or maybe you were worried about a loved onelike I was, recently, when my infant son Veer fell off a bed in a hotel in rural Vermont, and I was concerned that he might have a concussion. I wasnt able to search and quickly find the information I urgently needed (and I work at Google!).

Thankfully my son was OK, but the point is this stuff really matters: one in 20 Google searches are for health-related information. And you should find the health information you need more quickly and easily. 

So starting in the next few days, when you ask Google about common health conditions, youll start getting relevant medical facts right up front from the Knowledge Graph. Well show you typical symptoms and treatments, as well as details on how common the condition iswhether its critical, if its contagious, what ages it affects, and more. For some conditions youll also see high-quality illustrations from licensed medical illustrators. Once you get this basic info from Google, you should find it easier to do more research on other sites around the web, or know what questions to ask your doctor.


We worked with a team of medical doctors (led by our own Dr. Kapil Parakh, M.D., MPH, Ph.D.) to carefully compile, curate, and review this information. All of the gathered facts represent real-life clinical knowledge from these doctors and high-quality medical sources across the web, and the information has been checked by medical doctors at Google and the Mayo Clinic for accuracy.

That doesnt mean these search results are intended as medical advice. We know that cases can vary in severity from person to person, and that there are bound to be exceptions. What we present is intended for informational purposes onlyand you should always consult a healthcare professional if you have a medical concern. 

But we hope this can empower you in your health decisions by helping you learn more about common conditions. Were rolling it out over the next few days, in the U.S. in English to start. In the long run, not only do we plan to cover many more medical conditions, but we also want to extend this to other parts of the world. So the next time you need info on frostbite symptoms, or treatments for tennis elbow, or the basics on measles, the Google app will be a better place to start. 

Posted by Prem Ramaswami, Product Manager Online security is on everyones mind these days.  According to a recent Gallup poll, more people are worried about their online accounts being hacked than having their home broken into.

Security has always been a top priority for Google. Our Safe Browsing technology identifies unsafe websites and warns people before they visit them, protecting more than one billion Chrome, Firefox, and Safari users everyday. 2-Step Verification adds an extra layer of security, beyond your password, to your Google account; its like a second padlock on your accounts door. And our research teams regularly release new findings about nefarious online activity, like Gmail account hijacking attempts, so people can stay informed.

We have many protections in place to keep people, and their information, secure, but there's also a lot that you can do to protect yourself. Today, on Safer Internet Day, take a quick Security Checkup, an easy way to review and manage your Google Accounts security settings.


Here are some of the important items you can review during your Security Checkup:

Recovery information: Adding a phone number can help us get in touch if youre locked out of your account. Well only use your phone number to protect your account, unless you say otherwise.
Recent activity: This is a quick overview of your recent sign-ins to Google.  If you see any activity from a location or device you dont recognize, change your password immediately.
Account permissions: These are the apps, websites and devices connected to your Google account. Take a look and make sure you trustand actually useall of them. You might want to remove an old phone, or that dusty app you never use.

It takes just a few minutes to make sure your information is accurate and up to date.  And as an extra thank you, well add 2GB to your Drive storage plan if you complete the Security Checkup by February 17.  Visit your Account Settings and take your Security Checkup today.

Posted by Andreas Tuerk, Product Manager Technology can help us do more with less. For example, making use of natural climates has helped us make our data centers 50% more efficient than the industry average, and green building technology has helped us limit energy consumption in our offices around the world. Now, were doing more with less to power Googles North Bayshore campus in Mountain View.

Weve recently signed a long-term agreement to purchase enough local wind energy to offset the electrical consumption of our North Bayshore headquarters on an annual basis. While weve been committed to being a carbon-neutral company since 2007, and we purchase clean energy for our data centers, this agreement is the first of its kind when it comes to our offices.

The agreement with NextEra Energy Resources will help to repower an iconic Bay Area wind farm at Californias Altamont Pass with new turbines that will pour 43 MW of electricity onto the grid starting in 2016. This new technology is twice as efficient, and also saferespecially for wildlife.
The new turbines will generate energy that feeds into the grid that powers our North Bayshore buildings in Mountain View. While these electrons cant be traced once they enter the grid, we can measure how many of them leave the turbines, as well as how many we use on campus on an annual basis (tracked through a system of renewable energy credits, or RECs). So even though the electrons follow an untraceable path through the California electricity grid, we can be sure that we're offsetting the electrical consumption of our North Bayshore headquarters with the renewable energy from the new turbines.

Since our first wind investment in 2010, weve developed close relationships with renewable energy providers, helping us secure renewable energy agreements like this one for our campus and data centersmore than 1.1 gigawatts worth to dateand its also made it possible for us to make equity investments in 17 utility-scale renewable energy projects. And over the years weve been thrilled to see other California leaders, from tech companies to universities, also working to bring more renewable energy online.

Finally, if we can geek out for a minute: We think this project is especially cool because back in the 1980s, the golden hills of Altamont Pass were an early test bed for the first large-scale wind power technology in the U.S. Weve been blown away (pun intended :)) by how far turbine technology has come since then. Once the installation is complete, and the 370 legacy turbines are replaced, it will take just 24 new ones to generate as much power as our campus uses in a year. Talk about doing more with less.

Posted by David Radcliffe, VP, Real Estate and Workplace Services Happy Valentines Day (and long weekend!) to all you searchers out there. Heres a look at the past week in Google Search:

Artists in the spotlight
Around The Grammys last week, two artists were at the front of the search pack: Beck, who took home the Album of the Year award, and Kanye West. Kanye almost pulled a Kanye (of 2009 VMAs fame) when he appeared on the verge of interrupting Becks acceptance speech; West was upset that Beck won the award over Beyonce, who (according to West) had the best album of all time. 

Other top artists in search include Siaalong with Kristen Wiig, who appeared in Sias Grammy performance, although Sias face did notand Annie Lennox, whos still got it. Finally, searchers were struck by a sober moment during the ceremony: after domestic abuse survivor Brooke Axtell shared her personal story on stage, search interest in [domestic violence] spiked 93x.


News in the news
Shock followed shock for news hounds this week. First, a week after Brian Williams admitted that he had wrongly claimed to have been on a helicopter that was shot down in Iraq in 2003, he was suspended for six months by NBCs Nightly News. Now hes at an all-time high in search. Meanwhile, Jon Stewart announced he will leave The Daily Show after 16 years, devastating loyal fans everywhere and inspiring speculation over who will replace him. And finally, we said goodbye to two legends of journalism: Bob Simon, CBS News reporter and 60 Minutes correspondent for decades, and The New York Times media columnist David Carrare being mourned by colleagues and readers.


Jackpot
Some lucky viewers got a sneak peek at the third season of Netflix drama House of Cards when new episodes were accidentally posted online. More than 50,000 searches followed as people tried to get a glimpse before they were taken down. And speaking of lucky, this weeks $500+ million Powerball jackpot had people searching like crazy in hopes of winning the big bucks. There were 2 million searches for [Powerball] on Wednesday, and more for [mega millions] and [lottery numbers]. So far, one person has come forward to claim one of the three winning tickets, so maybe you should check your pockets... 

Searching for love
Valentines Day has people scrambling and searching for flowers and gift ideas. Interestingly, there are three times as many searches for [gifts for a boyfriend], than [gifts for a girlfriend], but when it comes to married couples things are reversed: there are more searches for [gifts for wife] than for [gifts for husband]. (Well just leave that there.) People turn to search for planning all kinds of Valentines Day activities, from What should I wear on a first date? to choosing a romantic movie.


Tip of the week
Go on, tell that special someone how you feel this weekend. The Google app can helpwhen your own words just arent good enough, say Ok Google, show me a love quote. Pro tip: give credit where credit is due. No one likes a plagiarist.

Posted by Emily Wood, Managing Editor, who searched this week for [cut onion without crying] and [why is it called shrove tuesday] Science is about observing and experimenting. Its about exploring unanswered questions, solving problems through curiosity, learning as you go and always trying again. 


Thats the spirit behind the fifth annual Google Science Fair, kicking off today. Together with LEGO Education, National Geographic, Scientific American and Virgin Galactic, were calling on all young researchers, explorers, builders, technologists and inventors to try something ambitious. Something imaginative, or maybe even unimaginable. Something that might just change the world around us.

From now through May 18, students around the world ages 13-18 can submit projects online across all scientific fields, from biology to computer science to anthropology and everything in between. Prizes include  $100,000 in scholarships and classroom grants from Scientific American and Google, a National Geographic Expedition to the Galapagos, an opportunity to visit LEGO designers at their Denmark headquarters, and the chance to tour Virgin Galactics new spaceship at their Mojave Air and Spaceport. This year were also introducing an award to recognize an Inspiring Educator, as well as a Community Impact Award honoring a project that addresses an environmental or health challenge.

Its only through trying something that we can get somewhere. Flashlights required batteries, then Ann Makosinski tried the heat of her hand. His grandfather would wander out of bed at night, until Kenneth Shinozuka tried a wearable sensor. The power supply was constantly unstable in her Indian village, so Harine Ravichandran tried to build a different kind of regulator. Previous Science Fair winners have blown us away with their ideas. Now its your turn.


Big ideas that have the potential to make a big impact often start from something small. Something that makes you curious. Something you love, youre good at, and want to try. 


So, what will you try?


Posted by Miriam Schneider, Google for Education team

(Cross-posted on the Google for Education Blog) What we learned this week on search: New Englands stuck in a winter wonderland, Cindy Crawford doesnt need makeup to look better than the rest of us and Lady Gagas caught in a good romance. Read on to learn the details.

Baby, its (still) cold outside
What better way to start your morning than with seven feet of snow? Thats what the lucky people of New England are saying (or not saying) as they endure the wrath of the aptly named Thundersnow. This type of storm occurs when a thunderstorm features snow instead of rain, and is just the latest storm in a record-breaking month of winter weather. The phenomena led to 20,000+ searches, which might have at least a little to do with The Weather Channels Jim Cantores on-air celebration when the storm hit. Whatever makes you happy, Jim.

A date with destiny
All eyes will be on the Academy Awards this Sunday, and people are prepping for their Oscar parties turning to the Internet to find out whos up for Best Actor and Best Actress. But the highlight of the event is the Best Picture Category, which many consider to be a tight race this year. The favorites are Boyhood and Birdman, but if searches this past month determined the winner, it would be Wes Anderson's The Grand Budapest Hotel.

And if were talking about a night out with the stars, does anyone know whereCindy Crawford is? This past week, unretouched photos of the American supermodel appeared online and, wellshe still looked stunning. The photo went viral and drummed up a discussion on the medias portrayal of female beauty.




Last call is in...
The party didnt stop at midnight this past Tuesday as people started their Mardi Gras/Fat Tuesday celebrations. Searches for the holiday spiked on February 17, and there was an increase in searches for New Orleans delicacies beignets and King Cake. On the other side of the world, many people in Asia welcomed the Year of the Goat (or sheep...or ram...whichever you prefer) as they rang in the Lunar New Year with style, not to mention topping the charts with more than 2 million searches.



Sparks are flying
Lady Gaga electrified search this week when she announced that shes switching her Poker Face for a wedding veil to marry boyfriend Taylor Kinney. Fans of the pop queen took to the web to find photos of her heart-shaped engagement ring and new fianc, causing searches for Kinney to hit an all-timehigh. Doesnt sound like a bad romance to us.

Speaking of electricity, this past Wednesday our doodle marked the 270th birthday of the godfather of all Energizer Bunnies, Alessandro Volta, the inventor of the first electrical battery. Searches for Who is Alessandro Volta and the voltaic pile hit highs, ensuring that the great inventor will be remembered for years to come.




Tip of the week
Dont have time to watch the three-hour-long Academy Awards this weekend? Just search for the Oscars in the Google App and youll find the latest info on what just happened, from acceptance speeches to behind-the-scenes moments.

Posted by Jenise Araujo, Communications Associate, who searched for [mother monster] and [doogie howser takes the oscars] When we were kids, if we wanted to learn more about gorillas or how to make friendship bracelets, our parents pointed us to an encyclopedia, or took us to the library. When we wanted to watch cartoons, we eagerly awaited Saturday morning. Todays kids have it even betterthey have all of these options, plus a world of knowledge and information at their fingertips via the Internet. That opens up wonderful opportunities, but also can cause some worry for those of us who are parents.

So over the past year, teams across Googleincluding many passionate parentshave been looking at how families are using our products, and how we can make it easier for children and parents to explore and play together. We decided to start with YouTube. 

For years, families have come to YouTube, watching countless hours of videos on a variety of topics. And today, were launching YouTube Kids, a new family-friendly app that makes it easy for kids to explore a vast selection of videos on any topic. 

In the new YouTube Kids app, available on Android and iOS in the U.S., videos are narrowed to focus on content that is appropriate for the whole family. You might explore DIY arts and crafts, learn how to find the circumference of a circle, or watch favorites from Mother Goose Club to Minecraft, as well as new series from National Geographic Kids and Reading Rainbow. And there are more train videos than even you can count. 

Weve designed the app to be easier for kids to use, with a brighter and bigger interface thats perfect for small thumbs and pudgy fingers. For parents, weve built in options that let you decide how your family uses the app, including the ability to set viewing limits with a timer.


Head over to YouTubes blog to learn more. This is just our first stepwell keep tinkering and hope to have more great products for your family soon. 

Posted by Pavni Diwanji, VP of Engineering, and Shimrit Ben-Yair, Product Manager, both moms of two One student celebrated Martin Luther King Day. Another created a music video with a nod to a Frozen princess. A third invited a cold polar bear in for holiday cheer. All these students are participants in Google CS First, a program that teaches 9- to 14-year-olds how to use computer science (CS) to express themselves and their interests. In the process, they get a window into the world of coding and learn skills that may be useful to them in the future. 

We launched CS First back in 2013, and since then more than 19,000 students have participated at one of 1,300+ CS First clubs around the country, most run by teachers, parents and volunteers. All our CS First materials are free and available online, and the curriculum is designed for everyone to work at their own pace, meaning its accessible even to people who are new to technology. Its also designed to tap into students existing interests, showing them how CS can integrate with the rest of their lives. Inspired by fashion, art, music, politics and more, students have used code to build videos, games and stories on topics big and small, from how they met their best friends to solving global hunger.



CS First participants at Sedgefield Middle School in Goose Creek, SC look over a friends shoulder at her project

Now, were partnering with Boys & Girls Clubs of America and Corporation for National and Community Service to bring CS First to even more students across the country. A new group of 20 AmeriCorps VISTA members will spend a year helping local Boys & Girls Clubs incorporate CS First and other educational programs into their slate of activities, giving more young people, especially those who might not otherwise be exposed to coding, greater access to computer science education. 

Computer science is increasingly important to building a successful career, in fields varying from medicine to architecture to music. But today, there arent enough computer scientists to fill the available jobsand on top of that, many populations arent equally represented in the field. According to code.org, only 8 percent of people who take the Advanced Placement Computer Science Exam are students of color, and only 15 percent are women. And while women earn 57 percent of all bachelor's degrees, only 12 percent of computer science degrees are awarded to women. We want to expand the pool of technologists, and make sure that all young people, regardless of background or resources, have access to high-quality CS education from an early age. 

Thats what this new effort is all about. Our partners have long been committed to supporting young people and communities. Boys & Girls Clubs of America gives young people access to opportunities to help them become productive and responsible citizens during out of school time. And AmeriCorps VISTA taps the skills and passion of more than 7,000 Americans annually to support community efforts to overcome poverty. Working together, we can empower more young people with the technical know-how they need to succeed in todays society and economy. 

Join us in making CS more accessible to more kids, and apply on the AmeriCorps website by March 1. If accepted, youll come to the Google headquarters in Mountain View for training before spending a year in one of six cities. Best of all, your year of service will make a real difference in the lives of young people. 

Posted by Kate Berrio, Google CS First Program Manager While winds howl, frost bites and snow falls, people dream of getting away from it all. Every year around this time, we see an uptick in searches for spring and summer travel from people who have had it up to here with winter. And in the middle of one of the coldest, snowiest, iciest winters on record in the U.S., you better believe people are gearing up to grab their suntan lotion and their carry-ons, and hop on a plane. Enter Google Flights, which makes it easy to plan the trip thats right for you. Here are a few tips to help you book this years dream vacation.

Flexibility is key when finding great deals
Theres a travel myth that you can always find the best deals on Tuesday. But actually, you can find good deals any day of the weekespecially if youre flexible with your travel dates. Though its sometimes hard to pull the trigger because youre afraid the price will drop tomorrow (or next Tuesday, maybe?), our experience shows its usually best to book right away. 

Regardless of which day you sit down to plan your trip, you can use the calendar in Google Flights to scroll through months and see the lowest fare highlighted for each day. If youre planning even further out, use the lowest fares graph beneath the calendar to see how prices may fluctuate based on the season, holidays or other events. You can also set preferences (such as direct flights only) and our calendar will adjust to show you just those flights and fares that fit the bill. Finally, if you can save more by using a nearby airport or flying on a different day, well show you a tip at the top of your results. 


Not sure about your destination? No problem
Sometimes, you know exactly where your destination needs to besay, when youre taking a business trip, or headed to a wedding or family reunion. But there are times when all you know is that you want to go somewhere. Maybe you want to go somewhere with a beach, but dont care if its in Greece or the Caribbean. Or you want to visit Southeast Asia, but arent sure which countries to visit. 

Our research shows more than half of searchers dont know where theyre going to travel when they sit down to plan. With Google Flights, you can search for regions or whole countries, like Flights to Europe and Flights to Mexico." Or, expand the map to scan the entire world and see accurate prices for all the different cities you can fly to, along with filters for your flight preferences. If youre in a particularly adventurousor lazymood, select the Im Feeling Lucky button on the map and well suggest ideas for where to go based on popular destinations and your past search history.

But cheaper isnt always better
We all love a good deal, but when it comes to choosing flights, cheaper doesnt always winand no wonder, when sometimes that means two connections instead of none. On Google Flights, the vast majority of people choose one of the Best flightsconsidered to be flights that are the best combination of price and convenience. Try it out next time youre looking for something that fits your schedule, not just your budget. 

So once youve warmed your hands on that cup of hot cocoa, put them to work on your keyboard or phone. Google Flights is ready to find the best destinations, dates, fares and flights for you to get away from it all.

Posted by Eric Zimmerman, Product Manager, Google Flights (dreaming of warmth from my Boston ice prison) Not the sexiest title for a blog post, I know. But as weve inhabited a variety of workplacesincluding a garage in Menlo Park, a farmhouse in Denmark and an entire New York city blockweve learned something about what makes an office space great. And were excited to put that into practice, starting here at our home in Mountain View.  

Today were submitting a plan to redevelop four sitesplaces where we already have offices but hope to significantly increase our square footageto the Mountain View City Council. It's the first time we'll design and build offices from scratch and we hope these plans by Bjarke Ingels at BIG and Thomas Heatherwick at Heatherwick Studio will lead to a better way of working.



A rendering of our proposed new campus. See more images on Google+

The idea is simple. Instead of constructing immoveable concrete buildings, well create lightweight block-like structures which can be moved around easily as we invest in new product areas. (Our self-driving car team, for example, has very different needs when it comes to office space from our Search engineers.) Large translucent canopies will cover each site, controlling the climate inside yet letting in light and air. With trees, landscaping, cafes, and bike paths weaving through these structures, we aim to blur the distinction between our buildings and nature.

Of course, this project is about much more than just office space; its about doing more with the local community as well. So were adding lots of bike paths and retail opportunities, like restaurants, for local businesses. We also hope to bring new life to the unique local environment, from enhancing burrowing owl habitats to widening creek beds. And were committed to do everything we can to save energyour recent agreement to offset our energy consumption in North Bayshore with renewable energy includes the development of this proposal.  

We chose Mountain View for our headquarters 15 years ago because we love the beauty of the bay, the close proximity to great universities, the family-friendly environment and the chance to work in a city at the heart of Silicon Valley. Today, we want to create office spaces that dont just provide a great home for Google, but which also work for the city that has given us so much.  

We look forward to working with our neighbors at the City Council on this proposaland the future of Mountain Views North Bayshore.

Posted by David Radcliffe, Vice President, Real Estate If youre the kind of person who loves the Internet when its at its most Internet-y, you had a good week. From llamas to retro cartoons to that darn dress, heres a look at the past week in search:

Internet gold 
Is it white and gold? Or blue and black? Thats the question that had everyone searching, tweeting and generally freaking out Thursday after a Tumblr user posted a photo of a dress that seemed to appear different colors to different people. Debate over the true color of the dress raged for hours, while others tried to solve the mystery of its divisiveness. All we know is, there were more than two million searches for [white and gold dress] yesterdaymore than for [blue and black dress]proving once and for all that its white and gold right? 


Before #thedress, though, there were the llamas. In Phoenix, Ariz., yesterday, two llamas got loose from their handlers and took off on a trot through neighborhood streets, yards and sidewalks. Searchers were captivated by the llama drama, which ended when police (l)lassoed the animals after a low-speed chase. 


Obama says (K)nope
Armed with waffles, Lagavulin and a lot of tissues, we said farewell to NBCs Parks and Recreation on Tuesday after a seven-year run. Searchers turned to the web to revisit favorite characters, quotes and episodes from the show that brought us Treat Yo Self and the Cones of Dunshire, while (wackily) celebrating the value of hard work, friendship and public service.


Moving from the small-town politics of Pawnee to the big-time in D.C., this week President Obama issued his third-ever Presidential veto, rejecting a bill that would have approved the Keystone XL Pipeline project. People turned to the web to learn more about Presidential veto power throughout history and the pipeline itself. What would Leslie and Ron make of all this, we wonder?

Heroic comebacks
Woo-oo! Nineties kids are rejoicing following news that the Disney cartoon DuckTales is getting a reboot. Searches for the show spiked 8x the day after the announcement. Sounds like a lot of you are ready for some tales of derring-do in 2017. 


And Madonna had a bit of a shaky week, after she fell backwards down a flight of stairs during her first performance at the Brit Awards in 20 years. But the Queen of Pop recovered quickly to finish her song Living for Love. Shes still an icon for a reason. 

Tip of the week
This will be illuminating: if you have an Android device running Lollipop, you can flip the on/off switch on your phones flashlight just by saying Ok Google, turn on my flashlight. You can do the same trick to turn on or off WiFi or Bluetooth.

Posted by Emily Wood, Managing Editor, who searched for [lil sebastian] and [duck tales real ducks] This week we saw troll hunting, email drama and flying weasels top the trends charts. Read on to learn the details. 

Yes, you did just see that
Whats furry, has wings and hits the trends charts with 50,000+ searches? A weasel woodpecker...or more accurately a weasel riding a woodpecker. Natures most unlikely pair was a top search on Monday after amateur photographer Martin Le-May snapped an incredible photo which went viral. Like most online phenomena, this one has its dissenters: many are speculating that the photo is a fake.

That wasnt this weeks only unusual sight. Actor Jared Leto stepped out without his trademark flowing locks, instead sporting platinum blond short hair for his role in the new movie Suicide Squad.  Letos new look leaves behind strands of ombre hair, the tears of thousands of fans, and 100,000+ searches.




Email: more trouble than its worth?
There was a spike in searches for former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton after news broke that she used her private email rather than an official government account while she was in office. The potential Democratic presidential candidates actions are drawing criticism from the media, although Republicans have remained surprisingly silent on the issue. To quell fears that shes got something to hide, Clinton tweeted: I want the public to see my emailguess there arent any skeletons in this inbox. 

Trolls exit here
Karma, meet Internet trolls. This week several prominent figures struck back at their online harassers, starting with baseball player Curt Schilling, who called out on his personal blog cyber bullies who had made offensive comments about his daughter on Twitter. Two of the commenters have already lost their jobs due to Schillings response, leading some people to dub him an Internet Vigilante. The situation has certainly raised Shillings profile: Searches for the former Red Sox player have hit their highest in years. 

American Idol winner Kelly Clarkson was next to take a swing at the haters. When British TV personality Katie Hopkins tweeted multiple derogatory remarks about Clarksons weight, the singer stood up for herself and against body shaming. Clarkson responded saying, Im awesome, and that she doesnt seek acceptance from others. The social media universe gave the singer a collective You go girl, and pushed Clarkson to the top of the search charts.


Tip of the week 
Daylight Savings Time is upon us! If you have a tendency to forget to change your (analog) clocks, just tell Google, Remind me to change my clock, and handle the issue while its still fresh in your memory. 


Posted by Jenise Araujo, Communications Associate, who searched for [how to bleach] and [texts from hillary] Ask Liz Liao what accomplishment shes most proud of, and shell tell you its not her masters degree in robotics from Carnegie Mellon University, her numerous published articles, or even the autonomous industrial robot she helped develop as a senior software engineer at Seegrid. Nopeaccording to Liz, her greatest achievement is co-founding Girl Develop It Minneapolis, a chapter in the national non-profit Girl Develop It, which provides hands-on programs and a network of support to women interested in learning web and software development.




3D imaging from the industrial robot, designed and built by Liz and her team

Source: Seegrid Vision Guided Vehicle: Pallet Truck

Liz often remembers being the only woman engineer on her team, but it wasnt until she moved to a new city and spent more time working remotely that she began to feel isolatedand realized how important it was for her to have a community of like-minded people to connect with. She started volunteering with a few local organizations and started the local Girl Develop It chapter in 2014. In just seven months, her chapter has more than 500 members and Liz has found a network of people she can connect to.

There are many women like Liz who never find that sense of community and instead end up leaving tech permanently. Not only does that mean our industry is less diverse than it should be, but it also leads to less innovative products. Thats why its so important for Google to do our part in creating environments, programs and policies that help women in technology thrive. Weve partnered with organizations like Girl Develop It, Women Who Code, Anita Borg Institute and the National Center for Women & Information Technology to create a more supportive environment for women in tech. And this International Womens Day, were building on our efforts to empower women to become makers of technology. Heres a look at what were up to:

Women Techmakers
Last year, Google started our Women Techmakers program to provide visibility, resources and a community for women in technology worldwide. This month we kicked off our second annual Women Techmakers Global Event Series, and we encourage you to attend an event to meet incredible women from around the world who are leading the technology industry. Create the future of wearables at a summit or from home with a brand new Android Wear Watch Face Codelab, and engage with the community using our hashtag #WTM15. For event highlights, photos and more check out Women Techmakers on Twitter and YouTube.

Share your wisdom with a #DearMe video letter
For many young girls, the path to finding themselves is filled with uncertainty. Its hard to figure out what you want to do or who you want to be when youre dealing with gossip, self-doubt and pressure from all sides. As part of our International Womens Day celebration, were encouraging you to think back on the advice you wish youd gotten when you were a young, and to share those words of wisdom with todays teenage girls. Submit a video letter on YouTube tagged with #DearMe telling your younger self what you wish someone had told you. Were looking forward to what you have to say.


A Doodle honoring women who transform the world 
Finally, we couldnt let International Womens Day pass without a Doodle. So our homepage today celebrates the many ways women scientists, engineers, athletes, doctors, artists, explorers and more are changing the world. 



Happy International Womens Day! 

Posted by Pavni Diwanji, VP of Engineering Two years ago, we introduced the first Chromebook Pixel. The idea was to bring together the best in hardware, software and design to inspire the next generation of Chromebooks. It's been exciting to see how the entire range of Chromebooksfrom classroom-proof to high-endhas made a difference to people at school, at home, and at work. Today, were introducing an updated and more powerful Pixel to fuel the imaginations of another wave of Chromebook enthusiasts. Plus, weve created a new, online Google Store where you can get the Pixel and other devices made with Google, all in one place.  

One charger for all your stuff
These days, packing for a trip means remembering to bring all your different chargersfor your phone, laptop, tablet, watch, etc. We think you should be able to use just one charger for all your electronics. So for the new Pixel, weve joined forces with some of the biggest names in the industry to create a new standard for charging, called USB Type C. The Pixel is one of the first products to launch with this new standard, with more Chromebooks and Android devices following suit soon.

Not only does Type-C enable multi-device charging, but it also allows high-speed data and display over the same connector and cable. Its small enough to work with smartphones, powerful enough to charge computers, and conveniently symmetrical (no more guessing which side is up!). Speaking of symmetry, the new Pixel doesnt just have one Type C portit has two, one on each side, so you can plug in wherever is convenient. 

Thoughtful design
Like the original Pixel, the new Chromebook has a high-resolution touchscreen, a sleek aluminum body, and smooth glass trackpad. Weve also made a few other enhancements, including a new wide-angle camera lens. 

Of course, the Pixel is also great on the inside. Its got a powerful Intel Core i5 with 8GB RAM and a 32GB SSD. If thats not enough for you, were making an LS (yup, that stands for "Ludicrous Speed") version that's even faster. And even with the new charger, you probably wont be carrying it around much, since the new Pixel has 12 hours of battery life.* When you do need to top up, its fastyoull get up to two hours of battery life with just 15 minutes of charging.*

Shop for the Pixel and more at the Google Store 
Weve been selling our devices on Google Play for years, but as weve added more products to the family, we thought it was time to make it easier for you to learn more about them. So today were also launching the Google Store, the new home for the latest devices made with Google.

At store.google.com, you can shop Nexus phones and tablets, Chromecast and Chromebooks, learn more about newer technology like Android Wear, Nexus Player and Nest, and stock up on accessories like cases, keyboards and chargers. Youll see how the Google apps you already knowlike Search, Maps and YouTubework seamlessly with all these products. The Google Store is available on your phone, tablet, or laptop, and right now youll get free shipping on everything** (consider it our way of saying hello).


Once youve found the right device at the Google Store, you can still head to Google Play to find apps, games, music, movies, TV shows and more. If you recently bought a device on Google Play, dont worryyour order info will automatically be transferred to the Google Store. See our Help Center for more information.

The Chromebook Pixel is available for purchase starting today in the U.S. on the new Google Store for $999 and $1299 for the LS version. Come check it out, and see what else is in store.

Posted by Andrew Bowers, Director of Consumer Hardware

*Battery life tested using Chromium standard PowerLoadTest at default brightness. The PowerLoadTest was created to emulate average user behavior and measure the resultant battery life. Charge time testing is measured by battery capacity increase with lid closed divided by average energy usage during PowerLoadtest. Battery life and charge time may vary depending on usage and other conditions.

 **Free shipping applies to the lowest cost shipping option. Free shipping promotion may be modified or discontinued at any time. Online security is on everybody's minds these days, so we want to give you updates about various ways Google keeps you safe online. Today, on the webs birthday, were highlighting recent improvements to Safe Browsing, technology that protects more than 1.1 billion people all over the world. -Ed.

As the web continues to evolve, its important that user protections develop in lockstep so that people stay safe online. Our Safe Browsing technology may not be quite as old as the webwhich celebrates its 26th birthday todaybut ever since Safe Browsing launched nearly eight years ago, its continually adapted to protect web users, everywhere.


Safe Browsing gives usersboth on Google and across on the webinformation they need to steer clear of danger. The dangerous sites detected by Safe Browsing generally fall into two categories: sites that attack users intentionally with either malware, phishing, or unwanted software that is deceptive or hard to uninstall, or sites that attack users unintentionally because they have been compromised, often without the sites owner realizing this has happened.

Once we detect these sites, Safe Browsing warns people about them in a variety of ways.  Youve probably come across a warning like this in Chrome, Firefox or Safari; its powered by Safe Browsing:


Today, Safe Browsing shows people more than 5 million warnings per day for all sorts of malicious sites and unwanted software, and discovers more than 50,000 malware sites and more than 90,000 phishing sites every month. If youre interested, you can see information about the dangerous sites that are detected by this technology anytime in our Safe Browsing Transparency Report.

We also use Safe Browsing technology to warn website owners or operators about issues with their sites so they can quickly fix them. We provide basic site maintenance tips, as well as specific Safe Browsing notifications in Webmaster Tools and Google Analytics. Often site owners dont realize there are issues with their sites until they get these notifications.

Recent developments
Since its earliest days, Safe Browsing has been widely available, and freefor users, site owners, and other companiesto use and integrate into their own products.  In the early days, we focused on detecting dangerous sites and then showing people warnings:




An early Safe Browsing notification, c. 2007. These would appear in the top right corner of peoples web browsers when they visited a site that had been flagged by Safe Browsing as potentially dangerous.

But, just as attacks become more sophisticated, weve made sure our own technologies have kept up. Over the years, weve built Safe Browsing into other Google products to help protect people in more places:


Safe Browsing API: We already make Safe Browsing data available for free to developers. This week were adding information about sites that host unwanted software, allowing developers to better protect their users as well.
Chrome: Before people visit a site delivering unwanted software, or try to download some of it, we show them a clear warning.
Google Analytics: We recently integrated Safe Browsing notifications into Google Analytics, so site owners can quickly take action to protect their users if there are issues with their websites. Previously, wed only provided these warnings via our Webmaster Tools service.
Ads: Weve also recently begun to identify ads that target people with unwanted software.


As the web grows up, Safe Browsing technology will, too. Were looking forward to protecting the web, and its users, for many birthdays to come.

Posted by Panayiotis Mavrommatis, Safe Browsing Team This week, runways, verdicts and diapers were the the talk of the town on search. Read on to learn more. 

Preachin' papas
Dude, wheres my baby changing table? Thats what actor Ashton Kutcher was wondering on social media after he observed a lack of diaper-changing facilities in mens restrooms. Kutcher offered to give a shout-out on his Facebook page to the the first business he could find with diaper-friendly bathrooms. While the actors call to arms might not move the needle in terms of shifting societal perceptions on parenting, it did get the celebrity trending on the search charts. 

Runways and sun tans
Peering into our search crystal ball, we think we see a little more breakdance fighting in our future. This past Tuesday, actors Ben Stiller and Owen Wilson surprised fans and fashionistas everywhere when they unexpectedly took to the catwalk during Valentino's display for Paris Fashion Weekall just to announce the sequel to their cult classic Zoolander. The news cracked the top 10 on trends for that day as searchers looked for videos of Stiller and Wilson strutting their stuff in full Zoolander and Hansel persona. One thing is clear: Blue steel is back in season. 




You know who else is excited right now? College kids, thanks to a little annual tradition called spring break. Students are all packed up and ready to hit the sun-drenched beaches of Panama City and South Padre Island, and searches for last-minute destinations and travel suggestions are heating up. 

Boiling over
Ferguson, Mo., is in the headlines again, and the reasons arent getting any better. First, the citys police chief resigned following an investigation into his department that found evidence of racism. Then, two police officers were shot and injured during a demonstration at the Ferguson Police Department. Both officers are out of the hospital, but no arrests have been made, and protests are erupting in a city still traumatized by recent eventsstirring people to get on the web to find the latest updates and causing sustained interest in the small city.  

Imitation is the sincerest form of payment
Musicians Robin Thicke and Pharrell Williams were found guilty of plagiarism after a jury determined that the duo infringed on soul singer Marvin Gayes track Got to Give it Up in 2013s summer jam Blurred Lines. The artists were hit with a whopping $7.4 million fine and generated 200,000+ searches. Some are already deriding the decision as a vote against creative expression and a terrible precedent to set for the music industry. But the fight is far from over as both Thicke and Williams plan to appeal the verdict.





Tip of the week
This spring break, skip the overpriced frozen pina coladas and jello shots and make your own cocktails with help from Google. Just say, Okay Google, how do I make a Snakebite? and youll be making tips in no time. 

Posted by Jenise Araujo, Communications Associate, who searched for [theres a lot more to life than being good looking] and [spring breakers]
 When you visited Google today, were pretty sure you didnt type 173.194.113.18 into your browser. This string of numbers separated by periodsan IP addressisnt nearly as easy or memorable as typing google.com. Domain names ending in things like .COM, .NET and .EDU make browsing the web and telling people where to find you online easier. Since this month marks the 30-year anniversary of .COM and several other domain endings, were taking a minute to celebrate these often-overlooked suffixes that have changed the way we use the web.


Though they were introduced in 1985, domain names didnt gain much awareness and use amongst the public until the World Wide Web became available to all during the 90s and it became clear they were an important part in unlocking its power. Using these online addresses, people began to spread messages, start businesses and access information that otherwise would have been nearly impossible to find. Popularity and demand for these names grew so much that people were soon willing to pay millions of dollars for the perfect one.


Today there are 270+ million registered domain names; in fact, about 17 million were added just last year.  To create more naming options for people online, hundreds of new top-level domains are being added, and many, like .TODAY, .NINJA and .BIKE are already available. We wrote about this back in 2012, and since then weve launched three of our own: .HOW, .SOY and .???.


As .COM turns 30, were looking back on the history of domain endings and all theyve made possible. Today there are more choices than ever before for people to find the perfect name for their businesses, projects and ideas on the web.  If youre interested in learning more about this history, or youd like to register your own piece of the web, head over to Google Domains to claim your .DOMAINS from a .COM to a .GURU.


Heres to .COMs 30th, and all thats yet to come in how we name destinations on the Internet.

Posted by Ben Fried, CIO For more than 20 years, New Yorkers and street art lovers worldwide made the pilgrimage to 5Pointz, a building in Long Island City called the "Graffiti Mecca" because of its brightly colored, ever-changing walls. Artists from around the world covered every inch of the 200,000-square foot exterior with more than 350 technicolor murals. But last summer, this building on Davis Street was whitewashed over by developers, then demolished.

Street art like that at 5Pointz transforms public spaces into open-air galleries, adding vibrancy to urban landscapes. But using the city as a canvas often means these artworks are here today, gone tomorrow. With the Google Art Project, were working to preserve this ephemeral art form and make it available to fans around the world, anywhere and anytime. 

Last June, we added street art from all over the globeincluding 5Pointzto the Google Art Project. Today, were doubling the number of public artworks to more than 10,000 high-resolution images. Eighty-five art organizations from 34 countries are sharing pieces, ranging from Swedens most famous street festival, to water tanks wrapped with art among New York citys rooftops, to the abandoned walls of Buenos Aires that are a source of inspiration for street artists from all over the world.



A water tank in New York City. Photo by TF Cornerstone

You dont need to be tied to your desktop to enjoy these fantastic collections. All these images are now available on a device near you with Chrome, Chromecast, Android Wear and your mobile devices. Turn your TV screen into a vibrant backdrop and add some color to your smartwatch with our new Street Art Watch Faces. On your phone or tablet, browse through our partners' new apps to take a tour of Melbourne's famous laneways or visit the multicolored murals in Delhi, Lima and Honolulu.



Wall by Brendan Monroe and Candybird. Photo byPow! Wow! Hawaii

Street artists have also been using technology to play with their medium. Our collection includes animated GIF-iti images by artists like INSA and Cheko. The walls come to life with murals that are painted, filmed, and re-painted to create captivating moving images.



GIF-iti by Cheko

So much goes into making a piece of street art. Yet its transient nature puts it at risk of being scrubbed out and lost forever. The Google Art Project allows these works of art to transcend the walls, be transported to your screen and live on. Follow @googleart to discover more.

Posted by Lucy Schwartz, Program Manager, Google Cultural Institute Whether youre glued to the small screen or youve got your eyes on the sky this week, search is there to answer your questions. Heres a look at this week in search:

TV gold
FOXs Empire has built a kingdom of fans during its first season on the air. This weeks finale not only brought the TV show its highest number of viewersit also had its largest spike in search interest to date with 200,000+ searches Wednesday night. The two-hour finale delivered a king-sized serving of soap opera-esque surprises, ending in a cliffhanger that had fans eager for more (When does Empire season 2 air? was trending question this week). And Empire is making waves in the real-life music industry too: its soundtrack debuted at number one on Billboards Top 200 list this week. Heres a look at the top searched songs:


Moving from TV fiction to fact, news broke last Saturday that real estate scion Robert Durst had been arrested in connection to several unsolved murders. Durst was the subject of The Jinx, the HBO documentary that aired its final episode Sunday nightin which Durst appears to confess to the crimes. Needless to say, though the police said the arrest was not connected to the show, the timing was great for HBO. Search interest in Robert Durst increased by 1,700 percent in the U.S.

Spring fever
March Madness tipped off this week, with fans across the nation rushing to fill out their brackets and come up with excuses to be out of the office. Ten of the top 20 searches yesterday were related to college basketball, and people are turning to search to ask important questions like Who can beat Kentucky? (Theyre undefeated this season.) And everyone wants to know who President Obama is rooting for: his is the most searched celebrity bracket so far.


If your bracket is already busted, youve got something else to be happy about: today marks the first day of spring, and the vernal equinox. Even though its still cold or even snowy in some spots today, the arrival of spring has people very excited. There were more than 2 million searches for [vernal equinox] yesterdayeven more than searches for [march madness live]. 

Still, the suns position over the Equator isnt the only celestial event thats got people searching. On Friday, well see both a Supermoon as well as the only total solar eclipse of the yearthe first since 2013. Searches for [solar eclipse glasses] are up more than 2,000 percent as people figure out how to catch a glimpse. And an intense solar storm brought the aurora borealis south on Tuesday night, making the Northern Lights visible as far south as Oregon and as far out as outer space. The green lights lit up search as well as the skies: search interest went up more than 1,250 percent this week!


Good eats
Who says it needs to be hot out to eat ice cream? Dairy Queen kicked off its 75th anniversary celebrations on Monday by treating everyone to a free cone, and more than 200,000 searches followed. And it turns out that when it comes to comfort food, ice cream was a better choice this week than the good ol blue box. Kraft announced a recall of more than 6 million boxes its classic macaroni and cheese after metal was found in some boxes. There were more than 100,000+ searches for [kraft mac and cheese recall] as people tried to determine whether their pantries were affected. 

Tip of the week
Keep up with the NCAA tournament with the Google app. Just say Ok Google, show me the latest on March Madness to get real-time scores, in-game and recap videos, and live streams for each game. 

Posted by Emily Wood, Managing Editor, who searched this week for [heisler beer tv] and [little women reboot] If you searched for Dependable Care near Garland, TX a few months ago, you would have seen a lot of search resultsbut not the one that mattered to Marieshia Hicks. Marieshia runs Dependable Care Health Service in Garland, and it was her business that was missing. But that all changed last month when she attended a workshop at the Garland Chamber of Commerce called Lets Put Garland on the Map.

The workshop, run by our Get Your Business Online team, showed her how to use Google My Businessa tool that allows business owners to control the info listed about their business on Google Search and Mapsto help more people find Dependable. Marieshia added an updated phone number, hours of operation, and a description to her business listing. Within a few months, she had more customers come through the door and referrals from doctors who could reach her. This one simple adjustment made a difference. In Marieshias words: Its huge. 

Huge might be an understatement. Four out of five people use search engines to find local information, like business hours and addresses, and research shows that businesses with complete listings are twice as likely(PDF) to be considered reputable by customers. Consumers are 38 percent more likely to visit and 29 percent more likely to consider purchasing from businesses with complete listings. Yet only 37 percent of businesses(PDF) have claimed a local business listing on a search engine. Thats a lot of missed opportunities for small businesses. 

With this in mind, our Get Your Business Online team set out in 2011 to help businesses like Marieshias get found online. Weve gone to every state in the U.S. and worked with thousands of business owners to create free websites and update their Google Search and Maps listings. But theres a lot more work to do to help businesses take advantage of the vast opportunities yielded by the web. So today, were introducing Lets Put Our Cities on the Map, a new program to help 30,000 cities get their local businesses online.

If we want to help every business in the U.S., we need to reach businesses where they are. So this tailor-made program provides each city with a custom website where local businesses can find helpful resources, including a new diagnostic tool that shows businesses how they appear on Search and Maps, a step-by-step guide for getting online with Google My Business, and a free website and domain name for one year with our partner, Startlogic.

Were also forming partnerships with local organizationslike chambers and small business development centersand equipping them with free trainings and customized city materials to run workshops just like the one Marieshia attended in Garland. These local partners know the challenges for local businesses more than anyoneand they recognize the value of getting businesses online. After all, getting Dependables information online not only means the world for Marieshia, it means even more for the city of Garland. Complete business info can help generate economic value up to $300,000 a year for a small city or up to $7 million for a large one(PDF). So when our local businesses are online, our local economies benefit.

If you have a favorite local businessa day care, a dentist, a dry cleanershow your support by helping them get their info online and on the map. Visit your citys website at www.gybo.com to find out how you can get involved.

Lets put our cities on the map! 

Posted by Soo Young Kim, Head of Marketing, Get Your Business Online  Searches for March Madness are still surviving and advancing, but this week brought with it a host of other stories to spur your search questions. Heres a look at what people were searching for this week: 

Germanwings Flight 9525
On Tuesday, Germanwings Flight 9525 crashed in the French Alps, killing all 150 people who were onboard. In the wake of the tragedy, people around the world have turned to search to learn more about the crash and subsequent investigation. Early searches included questions about Lufthansa, Germanwings parent company, and about the type of plane that had crashed; search interest in the Airbus A320 family spiked 100x in the first four hours. But after investigations revealed that co-pilot Andreas Lubitz appears to have deliberately locked himself in the cockpit and flown the plane into a mountain, the questions got more specific. People asked questions like How do you access the planes cockpit? and worried: Is it safe to fly after the Germanwings crash? and Is flying becoming more dangerous? 

Presidential politics
Election Day 2016 is more than a year-and-a-half away, but the presidential race is already underway. On Monday, Senator Ted Cruz announced his candidacy. The Texas Republican is known for his fervent opposition to the Affordable Care Act, in particular a 21-hour filibuster-style speech on the floor of the Senate in 2013 (at one point, he read aloud from Dr. Seuss Green Eggs and Ham). Searchers turned to the web to answer all kinds of questions about Cruz and his beliefs, sending searches for [cruz liberty], [cruz obamacare] and [cruz wiki] to spike more than a thousand percent in the last 30 days. The top questions, though, were around whether Cruz is eligible to become President because he was born in Canada. (The answer is yes, BTW.)


Pop culture mania
This week Zayn Malik confirmed he is leaving boy band One Direction, sending teens worldwide into a tailspin as they asked (and searched): Why is Zayn leaving One Direction? The British star said that he is leaving to be a normal 22-year-old...out of the spotlight, which may be tough given there were more than a million searches for him on Wednesday. Meanwhile, the rest of the band will go on without himin fact, search interest in One Direction tours spiked 5x in the U.S. the day of the announcement. 

If freaking out about Zayn isnt your thing, maybe freaking out about A is? The mysterious villain of the ABC Family show Pretty Little Liars was revealedsortaon Tuesday night, leading to hundreds of thousands of searchesfor the show. We wont spoil it here, even though it was frankly a little hard to miss amidst the outcry. Lets just say, the truth is out there. ;)

Finally, its barely spring but its already time to start thinking about your summer festival agenda. The line-ups of both San Franciscos Outside Lands and Chicagos Lollapalooza music festivals were announced this week. The top festival searched in each state breaks down almost exclusively along geographic lines and leaves us wondering: Are Massachusetts residents big Elton John fans?


Taking charge of your health
In a New York Times op-ed, Angelina Jolie revealed that she had undergone surgery to remove her ovaries and fallopian tubes to prevent cancer. This was the second preventative surgery for Jolie (she wrote about her double mastectomy in 2013), who made this decision because she carries a mutation in her BRCA1 gene, putting her at high risk for breast and ovarian cancer. There were more than 100,000 searches for Angelina Jolie on Tuesday, and people turned to the web to ask related questions about womens health and cancer prevention.


Tip of the week
Who says National Puppy Day has to be just once a year? When youre need of a furry pick-me-up, just ask the Google app Ok Google, show me pictures of puppies. Smiles are practically guaranteed.

Posted by Emily Wood, Managing Editor, who searched this week for [rural studio] and [izombie] Mail is a wondrous thing. From the early days of the homing pigeon to the herculean efforts of the Pony Express, mail has connected us for generations. The advent of email brought the world even closer together. And yet, despite this leap forward, physical mail still just sits there. In a box. All day. 

So today were excited to introduce Smartboxa better, smarter mailbox that fuses physical mail with everything you love about the electronic kind:


Smartbox is currently in field trialstuck in the ground, in a fieldfor Inbox by Gmail customers. If youre not yet using Inbox, simply email inbox@google.com anytime before April 2 to be invited, and to reserve your spot on the Smartbox waitlist.

Posted by Merrill Anovick, Project Manager  

(Cross-posted from the Gmail Blog) From political drama to the mobile resurrection of Pac-Man, heres what trended on search this week. 

If you can't stand the heat...
This week, the hammer came down on the state of Indiana after Governor Mike Pence signed the Religious Freedom Restoration Act, which would have allowed businesses to refuse service to individuals based on their sexual orientation. The law quickly drew a firestorm of criticism from the public Apple CEO Tim Cook and the NCAA condemned it, while Walmart spoke out against similar legislation in Arkansas. Amidst outcry against the law, searches for [indiana law] passed 200,000+ and left state officials squirming.  Eventually, the attention forced Pence to pass a fix to the bill that would prohibit businesses from using the law as a justification to deny people services based on race, disability, religion and sexual orientation.





Over in California, an ongoing four-year drought is pushing the state into a near-crisis. This week, Governor Jerry Brown signed an executive order calling for water supply agencies across the state to reduce their use by 25 percenta first in California history. News of the mandate is drawing interest online with the term [california drought] spiking on the web after the announcement. People are also looking for alternative methods to get through the dry spellsearches for drought-resistant plants spiked three times in the past seven days.



The jokes on you
The Internet is normally a funny place, but on April Fools day it takes the gags and laughs to a whole new level. Searches for the best pranks and jokes topped out at more than 200,000, 
with Petcos dog selfie stick and Cottonelles toilet paper for the left-handed earning top honors from the media. Even our own PAC-Maps got the web chompingsearches for the game soared to 2 million.

This week was no joke for comedian Trevor Noah, who was introduced as the new host of The Daily Show on Monday. The Twitterverse criticized the decision after discovering several old distasteful jokes the comedian had made on Twitter. Calling the tweets anti-semitic and sexist, some are already threatening to boycott the show. But not everyone is pulling out their pitchforks just yet: The network is standing by their choice while others are labeling the tweets a case of bad jokes. Either way, searches for the comedian hit an all-time high.

Mark your calendars
As Easter and Passover begin this weekend, people turned to the web to look for desserts, recipes and activities to celebrate the holidays. Searches for Easter-related topics like egg hunts, the Easter bunny and Easter brunch trended across the U.S. And people wore their lightest blue this past Thursday to mark Autism Awareness Daywhich made it to the top 10 on the search charts that day. 




Tip of the week
Struggling with your Easter egg decorations? Tell Google to, Show me picture of Easter eggs, to find a little design inspiration. 


Posted by Jenise Araujo, Communications Associate, who searched this week for [new host new problems] and [pranksters] If youve ever searched Google for the lyrics to Don McLeans American Pie, this was your lucky week. The manuscript of the classic song sold for $1.2 million this week, prompting its writer to speak publicly for the first time ever about what it all meantgiving searchers some new answers. There was plenty else to search for this week, though, with drama taking place on the diamond, in the courtroom, and on TV screens. 

Take me out to the ballgame
When one door closes, another opens. The same could be said of sporting seasons. March Madness came to a nail-biting close on Monday with a Duke victory over Wisconsin, and on Tuesday UConn took their third win in a row in the womens tournament. But while the Blue Devils and Huskies were celebrating, the focus shifted to Major League Baseball, which kicked off its new season on Sunday. As bats cracked across the country, people searched for their favorite teams, players, and game schedules. 


If baseballs not for you, maybe the grass is greener on the golf course? This years Masters Golf Tournament is now in full swing in Augusta, Ga. There were more than a million searches for the tradition unlike any other on Wednesday aloneand search interest in [hole in one] increased by more than 1,000 percent after six-time Masters champ Jack Nicklaus scored an ace at the tournaments par-3 contest. 

Crime and punishment
A white police officer in South Carolina was charged with the murder of an unarmed 50-year old black man this week. The officer, Michael T. Slager, claimed that he fired at Walter Scott because he feared for his safety, but a bystanders video of the shooting showed Slager fire eight shots at Scotts back as the man ran away. The video reignited debates about the use of lethal force by police, particularly against black mena topic that has been in the news for months following the deaths of Michael Brown in Ferguson, Mo., and Eric Garner in New York. Search interest in police brutality increased by 150 percent, and there were more than half a million searches for Walter Scott as people turned to the web to ask questions about how and why the event unfolded:


On Wednesday, a jury found Dzhokhar Tsarnaev guilty on all 30 charges for his role in the 2013 Boston Marathon bombings. People turned to search to learn more about the trial and whats next for Tsarnaev, who could face the death penalty. Between the trial and the upcoming 2015 Boston Marathon, its no surprise the term Boston Strong is trending on search as well. 

Drama on demand
It was a good week for TV fans. On Sunday, Mad Men returned for its final season, bringing people to search for the shows history, cast and more. Then, on Tuesday, cord cutters rejoicedand searchedwhen HBO introduced its long-awaited standalone streaming app HBO Now just in time for the fifth season of Game of Thrones. Plus, trailers dropped for the upcoming seasons of both True Detective and Orange is the New Black. And finally, when news broke that David Lynch wont be part of Showtimes Twin Peaks reboot, the cast protested with a video campaign that just happened to overlap with the 25th anniversary of the shows premiere. Whew. Now you just have to find time to watch all that. 


Tip of the week
Ok Google, when do the Nationals play? Stay up to date with upcoming games and scores for all your favorite teams this baseball season with the Google app. 

Posted by Emily Wood, Managing Editor, who searched this week for [brian krakow mad men] and [vhs covers modern movies] On a leafy street in north London, next to a popular zebra crossing, is one of the worlds most celebrated music landmarks: Abbey Road Studios.

Most people probably associate Abbey Road with the Beatles album of the same name. In fact, the studios have played a role in music history: if you can hum the theme to "Star Wars," "Harry Potter" or "Indiana Jones," or youve sung along to tracks by Pink Floyd or Oasis, or even if you own a pair of stereo headphones, then youve been impacted by the work of Abbey Road. Since opening in 1931, the studios have pushed the boundaries of music and sound, reinventing the recording process at every step. But until now, the famous crossing was as close as most of us could get to the studios.

Now, for the first time, the doors at Abbey Road are open to everyone. In partnership with Abbey Road Studios, weve created Inside Abbey Road, an experience that lets fans around the world step inside the studios and explore this renowned institution.

Accessible via desktop, tablet and phone, you can explore every nook and cranny of Abbey Road with more than 150 different 360-degree panoramic images. As you walk through the studios, youll see YouTube videos and archival images from Abbey Roads historyright where they originally happened. You can also play with pioneering equipment in specially designed interactive gadgets, such as the J37 4-track recorder that was used to record the Beatles Sgt. Peppers Lonely Hearts Club Band.

Throughout the studios youll find more than 30 stories, full of anecdotes and facts about the studios, like the story of Abbey Road engineer Alan Blumlein. Alan was annoyed after a trip to the movies, because the sound in early cinemas only came from one side of the screen. He went on to invent the concept of stereo audioand sound and screen have matched ever since. Or, if you feel like being guided around the studios, there's an audio tour you can join in every studio. Narrated by producer Giles Martin, engineer and Head of Audio Products Mirek Stiles, and broadcaster Lauren Laverne, the audio tours let you see the studios through their eyes. Think of it as your own personal tour.

Inside Abbey Road is part of our broader effort to help people experience worldwide culture and places from wherever they are, whether its visiting the Pyramids of Giza in Google Maps or getting up close to the brush strokes of Van Gogh in the Google Art Project. Now, were taking you behind the doors of one of the most famous music studios in the world. Take a step Inside Abbey Road and see for yourself.

Posted by Tom Seymour, Creative Lead and audiophile, Google Creative Lab London It's hard to believe, but smartphones barely existed ten years ago.  People used feature phones, which had very basic functionality, and were a nightmare for developers.  The only way to build apps was device by device and platform by platformGoogle had a closet full of hundreds of phones that we tested one by one each time we wanted to launch new software.  

Android was born from this frustration.  We hoped that by offering a great, free open-source operating system, we could turbocharge innovation by allowing manufacturers and developers to focus on what they do best.  At the time, most people thought this plan was nuts.

Fast forward to today.  The pace of mobile innovation has never been greater.  Smartphones are being adopted globally at an increasingly fast pace, with over hundreds of millions shipped each quarter, and the average smartphone price fell 23% between 2012 and 2014.  Its now possible to purchase a powerful smartphone, without subsidies or contracts, for under $100.  And the app ecosystem has exploded, giving consumers more choice than ever before.

Android has been a key player in spurring this competition and choice, lowering prices and increasing choice for everyone (there are over 18,000 different devices available today);


Its an open-source operating system that can be used free-of-charge by anyonethats right, literally anyone.  And its not just phones.  Today people are building almost anything with Androidincluding tablets, watches, TVs, cars, and more.  Some Android devices use Google services, and others do not.
Our Google Play store contains over one million apps and we paid out over $7 billion in revenue over the past year to developers and content publishers.
Apps that compete directly with Google such as Facebook, Amazon, Microsoft Office, and Expedia are easily available to Android users.  Indeed many of these apps come pre-loaded onto Android devices in addition to Google apps. The recent Samsung S6 is a great example of this, including pre-installed apps from Facebook, Microsoft, and Google.
Developers have a choice of platforms and over 80% of developers are building apps for several different mobile operating systems.


The European Commission has asked questions about our partner agreements.  It's important to remember that these are voluntaryagain, you can use Android without Googlebut provide real benefits to Android users, developers and the broader ecosystem.

Anti-fragmentation agreements, for example, ensure apps work across all sorts of different Android devices. (After all, it would be pretty frustrating if an app you downloaded on one phone didnt also work on your eventual replacement phone.)  And our app distribution agreements make sure that people get a great "out of the box" experience with useful apps right there on the home screen (how many of us could get through our day without maps or email?).  This also helps manufacturers of Android devices compete with Apple, Microsoft and other mobile ecosystems that come preloaded with similar baseline apps.  And remember that these distribution agreements are not exclusive, and Android manufacturers install their own apps and apps from other companies as well.  And in comparison to Applethe worlds most profitable (mobile) phone companythere are far fewer Google apps pre-installed on Android phones than Apple apps on iOS devices.

We are thankful for Androids success and we understand that with success comes scrutiny.  But it's not just Google that has benefited from Android's success.  The Android model has let manufacturers compete on their unique innovations.  Developers can reach huge audiences and build strong businesses.  And consumers now have unprecedented choice at ever-lower prices.  We look forward to discussing these issues in more detail with the European Commission over the months ahead. 

Posted by Hiroshi Lockheimer, VP of Engineering, Android In the summer of 2010, Google announced plans to acquire the flight search provider, ITA.  As we said at the time, while many people buy their airline tickets online, finding the right flight at the best price can be a real hassle.  Today Google Flight Search has made that much easier.  Search for "Flight CDG to SFO" and you get the different options right there on the results page.  Its a great example of Googles increasing ability to answer queries directly, saving people a lot of time and effortbecause as Larry Page said over a decade ago the perfect search engine should understand exactly what you mean and give you back exactly what you want."

At the time of the ITA acquisition, several online travel companiesExpedia, Kayak, and Travelocity--unsuccessfully lobbied regulators in the US and the European Union to block the deal, arguing that our ability to show flight options directly would siphon off their traffic and harm competition online.  Four years later its clear their allegations of harm turned out to be untrue.  As the Washington Post recently pointed out (in an article headed Google Flight Search, four years in:  not the competition-killer critics feared) Expedia, Orbitz, Priceline and Travelocity account for 95% of the US online travel market today.  Its a similar situation in Europe too, as this graph for Germany neatly shows:

Travel sites in Germany


Source: ComScore MMX and Google data (for Google), desktop traffic, unique visitors (000s)

Weve seen similar allegations of harm from competitors in other areas.  And the European Commission today confirmed that it is sending Google a Statement of Objections (SO) regarding the display and ranking of shopping results.   

While Google may be the most used search engine, people can now find and access information in numerous different waysand allegations of harm, for consumers and competitors, have proved to be wide of the mark.   

More choice than ever before
In fact, people have more choice than ever before.


There are numerous other search engines such as Bing, Yahoo, Quora, DuckDuckGo and a new wave of search assistants like Apples Siri and Microsofts Cortana.
In addition, there are a ton of specialized services like Amazon, Idealo, Le Guide, Expedia or eBay.  For example, Amazon, eBay, and Axel Springers Idealo are the three most popular shopping services in Germany.
People are increasingly using social sites like Facebook, Pinterest and Twitter to find recommendations, such as where to eat, which movies to watch or how to decorate their homes.
When it comes to news, users have many ways to reach their favorite sites. For example, Bild gets more than 85% of its traffic from sources other than Google and other search engines.*


Of course mobile is changing things as well.  Today 7 out of every 8 minutes on mobile devices is spent within appsin other words consumers are going to whichever websites or apps serve them best.  And they face no friction or costs in switching between them.  Yelp, for example, has told investors they get over 40% of their searches direct from their mobile apps.* So while in many ways its flattering to be described as a gatekeeper, the facts dont actually bear that out.

Thriving competition online
Which brings me to the competition.  Companies like Axel Springer, Expedia, TripAdvisor, and Yelp (all vociferous complainants in this process) have alleged that Googles practice of including our specialized results (Flight Search, Maps, Local results, etc.) in search has significantly harmed their businesses.  But their traffic, revenues and profits (as well as the pitch they make to investors) tell a very different story.


Yelp calls itself the de facto local search engine and has seen revenue growth of over 350% in the last four years.
TripAdvisor claims to be the Webs largest travel brand and has nearly doubled its revenues in the last four years.
Expedia has grown its revenues by more than 67% over the same periodand recently told investors:  We're seeing increased traffic coming through Google Hotel Finder.  It is clearly getting more exposure. And in general  the product continues to improve.  And Google has invested in it, we'll continue to invest in it  From our standpoint, we're happy to play in any market that Google puts out there and over a long period of time, we have proven an ability to get our fair share in the Google marketplaces. (Remarkable given their complaints.)
Axel Springer continues to invest in search, including the French search engine Qwant, because as the company told investors, there is a lot of innovation on the search market.


Indeed if you look at shoppingan area where we have seen a lot of complaints and where the European Commission has focused in its Statement of Objectionsits clear that (a) theres a ton of competition (including from Amazon and eBay, two of the biggest shopping sites in the world) and (b) Googles shopping results have not harmed the competition.  Take a look at these graphs:

Shopping Sites in Germany (unique visitors, 000s)



Shopping Sites in France (unique visitors, 000s)



Shopping Sites in the UK (unique visitors, 000s)




Any economist would say that you typically do not see a ton of innovation, new entrants or investment in sectors where competition is stagnatingor dominated by one player.  Yet that is exactly whats happening in our world.  Zalando, the German shopping site, went public in 2014 in one of Europes biggest-ever tech IPOs.  Companies like Facebook, Pinterest and Amazon have been investing in their own search services and search engines like Quixey, DuckDuckGo and Qwant have attracted new funding.  Were seeing innovation in voice search and the rise of search assistantswith even more to come.

Its why we respectfully but strongly disagree with the need to issue a Statement of Objections and look forward to making our case over the weeks ahead. 

Posted by Amit Singhal, Senior Vice President, Google Search

*Update:An earlier version of this post quoted traffic figures for Bild and The Guardian, researched on a third-party site. The Guardian data were for the domain guardian.co.uk, which is no longer the main domain for the paper. Weve removed these references and were sorry for the error. Yelp has pointed out that they get 40% of their searches (not their traffic) direct from their mobile apps. They dont appear to disclose their traffic numbers. Were happy to correct the record. To kiss Madonna or not...that was the big question on search this week. Read on to find out more.

Best I ever had?
In the land of music festivals, Coachella is the biggest of them all. With thousands of fans and celebrities swarming to the California desert to party, theres bound to be a couple of surprises throughout the weekends shenanigans. This year, rapper Drake got a little more than he expected when he brought Madonna on stage as a guest performer. The pop singer, never one to shy away from scandal, decided it was entirely appropriate to make out with Drakeon stage, in front of everyone and, apparently, without his consent. The shocking liplock swept the Internet off its feet (mainly because Drake seemed horrified by the experience). Nonetheless, searches for Madonna hit 500,000+ and Drake reached his highest peak in queries so far this year. But everythings still good between the two: Drake responded to the commotion on Instagram. Don't misinterpret my shock!! he wrote in a comment. I got to make out with the queen Madonna and I feel 100 about that forever.

Were willing to bet that pro golfer Jordan Spieth is having the best week of his life after he won the Masters Tournament and became the competition's second youngest winner after Tiger Woods at the age of 21. Spieth took home $1.8 million in prize money and more than a half million searchessounds like a good day on the greens to us.




I approve this message
Campaign season is back in full force this week. Former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton revealed Americas worst kept secret, announcing her presidential run with a YouTube video. Meanwhile, the list of contenders for the Republican nomination grows every week Senator Marco Rubio threw his name into the hat ring as well. Queries for both nominees nearly crossed a million as people turned to the web to find more details about their political positions and track records. 

Back in D.C., the latest distraction came in the form of a gyrocopter. In a bid to stir the debate about campaign finance reform, pilot Doug Hughes (illegally) landed a gyroplane on the West Lawn of the U.S. Capitol. The stunt is getting people talking about how much money candidates raise and spend during elections and boosting searches for gyrocopters to an all-time high.




Show me the money
Ever thought about working in the credit card business? Maybe you should reconsider your future plans. This week the CEO of Gravity payments, a credit card processing company, informed his employees that he was raising the minimum salary to $70,000seriously! CEO Dan Price told the media he made the change as a way to confront income inequality. Buzz for the little-known company skyrocketed since the media caught wind of the announcement, with searches topping more than 100,000.

Tip of the week
Cant find your phone and starting to feel desperate? If youre computer is nearby you can now ask Google to find your Android phone from your desktop. Just say, find my phone on Voice Search and Google will ring the phone for you. Just make sure youve got the latest version of the Google app installed on your device!?

Posted by Jenise Araujo, Communications Associate, who searched this week for [dradonna] and [can i get a raise]



 Architect and artist William Morris once said, Have nothing in your house that you do not know to be useful, or believe to be beautiful. Turns out thats also good advice for deciding what to wear. SoAndroid Wearoffers a range of watches and apps that are fashionable as well as functional.

Over the past few months weve added lots of ways to express your stylefromcustom watch facesto arainbow of bands. Today were making Android Wear more helpful as wellgetting you what you need, right on your wrist.

Always-on screen, always-on apps

When you buy a watch you want it to, well, tell the time. So most Android Wear watches include an always-on screenno tapping, twisting or shaking required to see what time it is. Now were expanding this option to apps, so they can stay visible as long as you need them, instead of disappearing when you drop your arm. In either case the screen is only full color when you're actively looking at itso you get the info you need, and you save on battery life.

Wi-Fi support

With GPS and offline music support, you can already leave your phone at home, then gojogging and jamminglike normal. Now Android Wear supports watches with built-in Wi-Fi. As long as your watch is connected to a Wi-Fi network, and your phone has a data connection (wherever it is), youll be able to get notifications, send messages, and use all your favorite apps. And if you really do forget your phone, you can alwaysask your watchwhere it is.

Simpler, faster, and more smiley

When it comes to your watch, using apps should be as simple as checking the time. So today were making a number of Android Wear improvements to help you access your info, and express yourself more easily:

Got your hands full? You no longer need them to check your news and notifications. Instead you can justflick your wristto scroll through the stream.
Your apps and contacts are now just a tap away from the watch face. Just touch the screen, and youll be able to start apps and send messages immediately.
: Cant talk? Now you can draw hundreds of different emojis, directly on the watch screen. Well recognize your work (no art degree required) and send it via message or text.

These updates are coming toall seven Android Wear watchesover the next few weeks, starting with the newLG Watch Urbane. In the meantime, there are plenty ofuseful appsand lots ofbeautiful watch facesso find your favorites, and wear what you want.


Posted by David Singleton, Director of Engineering, Android Wear
(Cross-posted to the Official Android Blog)
 Like the worlds best legends, the Loch Ness Monster transcends the everyday and exists at the edges of possibility. It rises above the sightings and the hoaxes; the claims and counter-claims; the tourism, the nationalismand even the assassination plots. It lives in the telling of stories. Whether or not you believe, most people hold a romanticized vision of the creature that, legend has it, plumbs the depths of the Loch. Affectionately known as Nessie, she exists in folklore, dances in childrens imaginations, and seeps into our society and teachings, inspiring everything from pop music to pop culture to pulp fiction. 



In 1934, the Surgeons Photograph was released, claiming to show the monster in the misty waters of the lake. Its the most iconic photo in the history of Loch Nessand may be one of the most elaborate hoaxes of our age. Today, to celebrate the anniversary of its release, we're bringing 360-degree Street View imagery of Loch Ness to Google Maps, so you can go in search of Nessie yourself. 

Loch Ness, Scotland
Sail across the freshwater lake and take in its haunting beauty, made darker still by the peat particles found in its waters. Let the Loch unlock the spirit of your imagination, where the rippling water, tricks of the light, and drifting logs bring the legend of Nessie to life. Adrian Shine, leader of the Loch Ness & Morar Project, has been engaged in fieldwork in the Highlands since 1973 and was an integral part of the Street View collection. As a true Loch Ness expert, Shine has logged more than 1,000 Nessie sightings and offers scientific explanations for why people claim to have seen Scotlands mysterious cryptid.




Formed of a series of interrelated bodies of water, including the River Oich to the south and the Bona Narrows to the north, Loch Ness stretches for 23 miles southwest of Inverness. Although its neither the largest Scottish loch by surface area nor depth, it is the largest by volume, containing more freshwater than all the lakes of England and Wales combined. And at almost 800 feet deep, theres an entire world below the surface, giving rise to the Nessie legend.

Underwater in Loch Ness
To take you on a tour of what lies beneath, our partners at the Catlin Seaview Survey dived deep under the surface of the lake, collecting imagery along the way. You can imagine Nessie nestling within these dark, peat-filled waters, waiting for the right moment to breach the surface into the Scottish sunlight above.

A diver from the Catlin Seaview Survey collecting underwater imagery of Loch Ness
Wherever you stand on the Nessie debate, the legend lives oneven in the digital era. There are more searches for Loch Ness than there are for other U.K. institutions like Buckingham Palace and the Peak District. And as we celebrate Loch Ness with todays Doodle, we hope you can enjoy some of the most history-laden and breathtaking imagery the highlands have to offer with Street View in Google Maps. 


By Sven Tresp, Program Manager, Street View Special Collections
 On April 27, 1994, Nelson Mandela became President of South Africa in the countrys first democratic, post-Apartheid election. Known now as Freedom Day, that date has become a symbol of hope in South Africa and around the world. To commemorate this historic day, weve partnered with the Robben Island Museum and the Nelson Mandela Centre of Memory to bring the story of this UNESCO World Heritage Site online for the world to explore. The Maps gallery and Cultural Institute online tour allow people everywhere to see the island where Nelson Mandela and many of South Africas freedom fighters were imprisoned during their quest for equality.

As a symbol of South Africas struggle for freedom, Robben Island has become a destination for people to connect with Mandela and other freedom fighters. Standing in Mandelas 8 x 7 foot prison cell, it's hard to believe someone could spend 18 years here. Exploring the historical artifacts on the tour, you can also see photographs of his cell during the time of his imprisonment. You can imagine Mandela sitting at the cramped desk, surrounded by books and papers, working towards a future of freedom for all.


Photograph of Mandelas Cell c.1971  

Robben Island was also where activist Robert Sobukwe was imprisoned, kept in solitary confinement for more than three years after taking a stand against the Pass Law, which required black citizens to carry an internal passport and severely limited their mobility. Exploring Sobukwes home on Robben Island, you can learn more about the man who didnt let prison halt his attempts to make equality a reality. You can even view the pages of his notebook, which is still kept on his desk today.


Robert Sobukwes house of solitary confinement on Robben Island

In the new online exhibitions on the Cultural Institute platform, you can also listen to prisoners personal anecdotes about life at this infamous prison, including memories of where they were forced to work as well as how they studied and came together to create a unified vision for freedom in South Africa. You can see some personal items donated by former political prisoners, including a football trophy from the their FIFA-recognized league, hand-drawn table tennis awards, a treasured trumpet, and a duplicate master key fashioned by a prisoner from lead.


View of the Lime Quarry, the site of enforced prison labor at Robben Island

Once a symbol of the oppressive Apartheid regime, Robben Island is now a memorial and a reminder of the human spirits irrepressible search for freedom. We hope youll take a moment to step back in time to explore and be inspired by the islands story of hope and humanity.

Posted by Luke McKend, Country Director for Google South Africa You can search Google for answers to all kinds of animal questions: What does an aye-aye eat? Where do narwhals live? How long is a toco toucan's beak? And this Earth Day, you can turn to Google for the answer to something that youve always needed to know: which animal are you???


Clicking on this years Earth Day logo (or searching for Earth Day quiz) presents one of the Internets favorite pastimes: a totally scientific and 1,000% accurate personality quiz. Take the time to answer a few questions to determine and share your Earth Day animal. And, of course, youre only a search away from learning more about natures precious pals and interesting inhabitants (FYI: kakapo is the heaviest parrot).

If you need proof of the accuracy of our quiz, look no further than the testimonials of some of our wildlife-loving, quiz-taking friends like Ed Norton, Jared Leto, and Maggie Q. Dame Jane Goodall took the quiz and had this to report:


Once youve gotten to know your deepest self (and animal avatar), we hope youre inspired to help make a real difference this Earth Day. For the month of April, were partnering with our friends at Google.org, who will match donations to the following animal-loving organizations up to $20,000. That means every $1 you donate to one of these great groups is worth $2 to protect wildlife around the world. Chip in what you can at the Jane Goodall Institute, Maasai Wilderness Conservation Trust, World Wildlife Fund, WildAid, Zoological Society of London and Virunga Fund.

Happy Earth Day!

Posted by Ryan Germick, Doodle Team Lead, Giant Squid In today's mobile world, fast and reliable connectivity is almost second nature. But even in places like the U.S., where mobile connections are nearly ubiquitous, there are still times when you turn to your phone for that split-second answer and don't have fast enough speed. Or you can't get calls and texts because you left your phone in a taxi (or it got lost in a couch cushion for the day). As mobile devices continually improve how you connect to people and information, it's important that wireless connectivity and communication keep pace and be fast everywhere, easy to use, and accessible to everyone. 

That's why today were introducing Project Fi, a program to explore this opportunity by introducing new ideas through a fast and easy wireless experience. Similar to our Nexus hardware program, Project Fi enables us to work in close partnership with leading carriers, hardware makers, and all of you to push the boundaries of what's possible. By designing across hardware, software and connectivity, we can more fully explore new ways for people to connect and communicate. Two of the top mobile networks in the U.S.Sprint and T-Mobileare partnering with us to launch Project Fi and now you can be part of the project too. 

Our three focus areas include: 

Helping you get the highest-quality connection
Project Fi aims to put you on the best network wherever you go. As you move around, the best network for you might be a Wi-Fi hotspot or a specific 4G LTE network. We developed new technology that gives you better coverage by intelligently connecting you to the fastest available network at your location whether it's Wi-Fi or one of our two partner LTE networks. As you go about your day, Project Fi automatically connects you to more than a million free, open Wi-Fi hotspots we've verified as fast and reliable. Once you're connected, we help secure your data through encryption. When you're not on Wi-Fi, we move you between whichever of our partner networks is delivering the fastest speed, so you get 4G LTE in more places. Learn more about our network of networks. 

Enabling easy communication across networks and devices
Project Fi works to get technology out of the way so you can communicate through whichever network type and device you're using. Wherever you're connected to Wi-Fiwhether that's at home, your favorite coffee shop or your Batcaveyou can talk and text like you normally do. If you leave an area of Wi-Fi coverage, your call will seamlessly transition from Wi-Fi to cell networks so your conversation doesnt skip a beat. We also want to help phone numbers adapt to a multi-screen world. With Project Fi, your phone number lives in the cloud, so you can talk and text with your number on just about any phone, tablet or laptop. So the next time you misplace your phone, you can stay connected using another screen. Check out how it works.

Making the service experience as simple as possible
Project Fi takes a fresh approach to how you pay for wireless, manage your service, and get in touch when you need help. We offer one simple plan at one price with 24/7 support. Here's how it works: for $20 a month you get all the basics (talk, text, Wi-Fi tethering, and international coverage in 120+ countries), and then it's a flat $10 per GB for cellular data while in the U.S. and abroad. 1GB is $10/month, 2GB is $20/month, 3GB is $30/month, and so on. Since it's hard to predict your data usage, you'll get credit for the full value of your unused data. Let's say you go with 3GB for $30 and only use 1.4GB one month. You'll get $16 back, so you only pay for what you use. Get all the details about our plan.

Be part of the project from the start
We're beginning Project Fi's Early Access Program to invite people to sign up for the service. Project Fi will be available on the Nexus 6, which we developed with Motorola and is the first smartphone that supports the hardware and software to work with our service. If you live where we have coverage in the U.S., request an invite at fi.google.comto get started. 

We look forward to connecting! 

Posted by Nick Fox, VP of Communications Products  Everyone wants to know what D.J. Tanner and Target are up to. Read on for all the search scoop from this week: 

The earth in focus
Wednesday marked the 45th annual Earth Day celebration. People came to search to get more information on the origins of the holiday and learn about ways to conserveoh, and find out what animal they are, of course. In addition to searches for [earth day slogans] and [earth day worksheets], searchers asked questions like When was the first Earth Day?, How do we stop climate change? and Is styrofoam recyclable? 


Just when we were feeling all warm and fuzzy about our planet, we got a reminder that nature can be a little scary as well as awe-inspiring. In Chile, the Calbuco volcano exploded for the first time in more than 40 years, sending clouds of ash into the air and causing thousands to evacuate. There were 100K+ searches for [chile volcano] as people sought to learn more about the eruption.

Prized Pulitzers
Sunday morning, people lined up outside Target stores around the country for the launch of the stores new Lilly Pulitzer collaboration. But many fans waited in vain, as the affordable line of clothes and home decor sold out within hours both on and offline. Shoppers vented on social media, and searches for Lilly Pulitzer reached an all-time high this month. Meanwhile, persistent types have driven searches for [lilly pulitzer ebay] up 1000% in the last seven days.


But lucky Lilly fans werent the only ones thanking the stars for their Pulitzer this week. This years Pulitzer prizes were announced on Monday, leading people to the web to learn more about the winners across categories ranging from fiction to investigative reporting to poetry. (And in case you were wondering: Lilly Pulitzer, who died in 2013, was once married to the grandson of Joseph Pulitzer, who established the eponymous Prize.) 


Everywhere you look...
...there are reboots. First DuckTales, then The Muppet Show, and now Fuller House. This week Netflix announced a spin-off of the 90s family sitcom Full House, to debut in 2016, and 200,000+ searches followed. The new show will feature oldest sister D.J. Tanner (Candace Cameron Bure), and several other stars from the original series are signed on to return, including Jodie Sweetinthe subject of some 50K+ searches this weekand John Stamos. Still, its yet to be seen whether the rest of the cast will participate or decide to cut it out. Though searches for Mary-Kate Olsen reached more than 50,000 this week, she and her sister have said that they were surprised by the news. So you might want to wait a bit before saying TGIF!


Tip of the week
Keep that good Earth Day momentum going. Just ask Google, Where can I recycle electronics near me? for a handy list of places to drop off your old wires and devices. 

Posted by Emily Wood, Managing Editor, who searched this week for [gilbert blythe] and [nba playoff schedule] Would you enter your email address and password on this page?



This looks like a fairly standard login page, but its not. Its what we call a phishing page, a site run by people looking to receive and steal your password. If you type your password here, attackers could steal it and gain access to your Google Accountand you may not even know it. This is a common and dangerous trap: the most effective phishing attacks can succeed 45 percent of the time, nearly 2 percent of messages to Gmail are designed to trick people into giving up their passwords, and various services across the web send millions upon millions of phishing emails, every day.



To help keep your account safe, today were launching Password Alert, a free, open-source Chrome extension that protects your Google and Google Apps for Work Accounts. Once youve installed it, Password Alert will show you a warning if you type your Google password into a site that isnt a Google sign-in page. This protects you from phishing attacks and also encourages you to use different passwords for different sites, a security best practice.



Here's how it works for consumer accounts. Once youve installed and initialized Password Alert, Chrome will remember a scrambled version of your Google Account password. It only remembers this information for security purposes and doesnt share it with anyone. If you type your password into a site that isn't a Google sign-in page, Password Alert will show you a notice like the one below. This alert will tell you that youre at risk of being phished so you can update your password and protect yourself.



Password Alert is also available to Google for Work customers, including Google Apps and Drive for Work. Your administrator can install Password Alert for everyone in the domains they manage, and receive alerts when Password Alert detects a possible problem. This can help spot malicious attackers trying to break into employee accounts and also reduce password reuse. Administrators can find more information in the Help Center.



We work to protect users from phishing attacks in a variety of ways. Were constantly improving our Safe Browsing technology, which protects more than 1 billion people on Chrome, Safari and Firefox from phishing and other dangerous sites via bright, red warnings. We also offer tools like 2-Step Verification and Security Key that people can use to protect their Google Accounts and stay safe online. And of course, you can also take a Security Checkup at any time to make sure the safety and security information associated with your account is current.

To get started with Password Alert, visit the Chrome Web Store or the FAQ.

Posted by Drew Hintz, Security Engineer and Justin Kosslyn, Google Ideas This week was a sobering one on search and worldwide, as people looked for news out of Nepal and read up on the demonstrations in Baltimore. But as we welcome the month of May, searchers are also gearing up for a weekend of superheroesin the ring, on the track and on the big screen. 

All eyes on Nepal and Baltimore
People around the world came to Google for information about the devastating earthquake that struck Nepal this week. The 7.8 quake killed more than 6,000 people, triggered an avalanche on Mount Everest and destroyed several historical sites, including Katmandus Durbar Square. As rescuers continue to look for survivors, searchers turned to Google for news about the relief efforts and to ask questions about how to help, including: How do I volunteer in Nepal? and Where can I donate to Nepal? See the scope of the worlds response to the tragedy in this visualization:

In the U.S., a crisis of a different kind erupted in Baltimore this week. Starting last Friday, people protested in the streets in response to the death of Freddie Gray, an African-American man who died on April 19 while in police custody. As demonstrations intensified on Monday and Tuesday, officials imposed a curfew and called in the National Guard. Searchers around the country turned to Google with their questions about the events, including: Why is there a curfew in Baltimore?, What is the National Guard? and What happened to Freddie Gray? And we saw big spikes in searches for topics like martial law, Baltimore Sun, Mondawmin Mall and the Baltimore Orioles.

The Sport of Kings and the Sweet Science
Tomorrow, 20 racehorses will line up for the 141st Kentucky Derby, but oddsmakers are insisting this is really a two-horse race between heavy favorites American Pharoah and Dortmund. Search interest in horse racing spiked 4X in the last week, with the Derby appearing in Hot Trends three out of the last four days. People are also turning to search to gear up for the festivities: interest in dress hats has spiked, and searches for [mint juleps] have spiked 4X.



After American Pharoah and Dortmunds battle for the roses, two other fierce opponents will go nose to nose: the hotly anticipated fight between Floyd Mayweather and Manny Pacquiao takes place Saturday night in Las Vegas. The boxing match is being called the fight of the century with a reported $300 million at stake. As people get ready for the fighters to put their gloves on, theyre turning to search to answer questions like Where can I watch the Mayweather-Pacquiao fight? and How much will Mayweather make from the fight? So far, Mayweather, who is undefeated, is winning the match in searchhes being searched for more than Pacquiao in all U.S. states except Hawaii.


A cast of characters
The blockbuster Avengers 2: Age of Ultron has finally hit theaters, and people are turning to Google to find information about their favorite superheroes and where to see them in theaters. There were more than 500,000 searches for the movie on Thursday, and early box office estimates suggest that fans are putting their money where their searches are. Take a look at the top searched characters from the movie:



Tip of the week
Donning a hat for Derby Day tomorrow? Make sure youve got a southern beverage to match. Just ask Google, how do I make a mint julep? and youll get directions for how to mix up a winner.

Posted by Emily Wood, Managing Editor, who searched this week for [email debt forgiveness day]  In 1880, the Pittsburgh Dispatch published an article titled "What Girls Are Good For. In dismissive terms, the columns author wrote that women shouldn't be allowed to work because their place was at home. 

Days later, a pseudonymous rebuttal appeared in the paper. The response, by a 16-year-old girl whose real name was Elizabeth Jane Cochran, argued how important it was for women to be independent and self-reliant. Within a decade, the author of that response would become known worldwide as Nellie Bly: a hard-hitting young journalist who went undercover at a lunatic asylum and traveled around the world in a record-breaking 72 days. 

Throughout her life and career, Nellie Bly spoke up for the underprivileged, the helpless and minorities, and defied societys expectations for women. We love her adventurous spirit, and we share her belief that women can do anything and be anything they want (we like to think if she were around today shed be a fellow fan of trailblazing women like Ada, Anita and Ann). So when it came time to honor Nellie with a Doodle, we wanted to make it special. Karen O of the Yeah Yeah Yeahs wrote, composed and recorded an original song about Nellie, and Katy Wu, the artist who created this doodle, created an animation set to Karen Os music celebrating this intrepid investigative reporter. 


Nellie was born on May 5, 1864 in a suburb of Pittsburgh, Pa. After her response was published in the Dispatch in 1880, the editor, George Madden, tracked her down and hired her as a reporter. At the time, women reporters commonly used pen names; hers came from a song by fellow Pittsburgher Stephen Foster. She spent several years at the paper before moving to New York for a job at New York World, which was owned by Joseph Pulitzer. In 1887, she went undercover at the Women's Lunatic Asylum on Blackwell's Island to write an expos about the conditions there. Her resulting book, Ten Days in a Mad-House, made her famous. 

But Nellie is best known for her trip around the world. Inspired by Phileas Fogg, the hero of Jules Vernes novel, Around the World in 80 Days, Nellie set sail from New York in November 1889 determined to beat Foggs time. Traveling by steamships and sailboats, she sent dispatches back to her newspaper as she circled the globe. Instead of sitting idly and just observing, she was always a part of the action and conversation, despite the fact that public spaces were typically reserved for men at the time.



Storyboard for today's Nellie Bly video doodle, by Katy Wu

When creating the Doodle, we took inspiration from Karen Os lyrics and Nellies journey around the globe. Throughout the video, Katy used newspaper as a unifying themewith paper tearing, folding and crumpling as the story goes along. And though the video is mostly black and white, she added some color to represent Nellie's energy and vibrancy. 

Back in the 19th century, Nellie fearlessly showed a generation of people what girls are good for. Were excited to tell her story in todays Doodleand we hope Nellie inspires women and girls everywhere to follow in her footsteps and show the world what they can do.

Posted by Liat Ben-Rafael, Program Manager, Google Doodles When I was in 5th grade, I complained to my teacher, Mr. Tomazewski, that there must be more to mathematics than simple arithmetic. He concurred and gave me a 7th grade algebra book because he believed in me. I spent the summer working through every problem! With that simple act, Mr. Tomazewski had set me off on a career path that eventually led to the invention of the Internet.



Me at age 11 in 1954

As students, we have the potential to be or do anythingwhether and how we fulfill that potential is largely determined by the guidance and encouragement of our teachers. 

Thats one reason why Google is so committed to improving teaching and learning through the use of technology. One year ago this week, we announced Classroom, a tool that helps teachers manage assignments, communicate with students and parents, and stay organized. Since then, weve continued to add features that teachers and students tell us they need, and if you stay tuned to the Google for Education Blog this week, youll hear about a few of our newest additions.  

In the spirit of listening to our teachers, were also continuing to improve our CS First materialsfree online computer science content developed by educators and computer scientiststo help introduce the art of programming to students in grades 4-8 through after-school, in-school and summer programs.

We also realize the importance of what teachers can learn from one another. So with that in mind, this week were hosting Education on Aira free online event with 100+ sessions led by educators from 12 countries and 29 U.S. states. Well cover themes that include empowering students, practical innovation, CS and STEM, and building community. Speakers include LeVar Burton and Google Science Fair 2012 winner Brittany Wenger. We hope you can virtually join us May 8-9 for this online education conference, and make sure to register so you can catch recorded videos of all the sessions. 


Our lives would be profoundly different without the Mr. Tomazeskis of the world. Please join us in saying thank you to our teachers this weekin person, online, in a handwritten note, or even a memefor all that they help us to achieve.

Posted by Vint Cerf, Chief Internet Evangelist When we released the composition of our workforce almost a year ago, it confirmed what many people suspected: the tech industry needs to do a lot more when it comes to diversity. Since then, the question I get asked most isso what are you doing about it? 

You may have heard about some of the work weve been doing: embedding engineers at Historically Black Colleges and Universities; partnering with Hollywood to inspire girls to pursue careers in computer science; building local initiatives to introduce coding to high school students from diverse communities; and expanding our employee unconscious bias training.  

But these programs represent only a sampling of all the work that is going on behind the scenes. If were really going to make an impact, we need a holistic plan. Today, we want to share our diversity strategy, which is focused on four key areas: 

Hire diverse Googlers: In the past, our university-focused hiring programs have relied heavily on a relatively small number of schools. But, we know those schools aren't always the most diverse. For example, while 14% of Hispanic college enrollment is at 4-year schools, Hispanics make up just 7% at the 200 most selective schools. In the past two years, we've doubled the number of schools where we recruit, to promote student diversity. This year, nearly 20 percent of the hires we make from a university are from these new campuses.

Foster a fair and inclusive culture: We want to ensure that we have an environment where all Googlers can thrive. Weve raised awareness around unconscious biashalf of all Googlers have participated in our unconscious bias workshopsand weve now rolled out a hands-on workshop that provides practical tips for addressing bias when we see it. Were also drawing on the idea of 20 percent time to enable employees to use their time at work to focus on diversity projects. In 2015, more than 500 Googlers will participate in Diversity Core, a formal program in which employees contributeas part of their jobto the companys diversity efforts. 

Expand the pool of technologists: Making computer science (CS) education accessible and available to everyone is one of our most important initiatives. Our CS First program is designed to help anyonea teacher, a coach, or volunteerteach kids the basics of coding. And since research tells us that to inspire more girls, we need to show them that computer science isnt just for boys, we started Made with Codeand were working with the entertainment industry to change the perceptions around CS and what it means to be a computer scientist.

Bridge the digital divide: We also want more underrepresented communities, including women and minorities, to share the benefits of the web, and to have access to the economic engine it provides. The Accelerate with Google Academy helps business owners get online, grow and drive economic impact. 

With an organization of our size, meaningful change will take time. From one year to the next, bit by bit, our progress will inch forward. More importantly, our industry will become more inclusive, and the opportunities for currently underrepresented groups will grow. Well share our updated diversity data for 2015 soon. Were gradually making progress across these four areas, and were in it for the long term.

Posted by Nancy Lee, Vice President, People Operations From new moms to dads in disguise, heres a look at the week on Google Search:

The princess and the Parliament
The Duke and Duchess welcomed their second child, Charlotte Elizabeth Diana of Cambridge, this weeksetting off a wave of royal baby fervor worldwide. Searchers were quick to turn to Google to learn more about Princess Charlotte, who is fourth in line to the throne. Search interest in the "meaning of Charlotte" spiked 15X worldwide in the 24 hours following the reveal. In the U.S., Dallas and New York were the places searching the most for the babys name. 


While U.K. citizens celebrated their new princess, they had something else on their minds: yesterdays national election. Weeks of polling had predicted a close tie between the Conservatives and the Labour Party, but in the end David Camerons Conservative party walked away with the majority in a victory that surprised many. The election dominated search in the U.K.all but one of the top 20 search terms Friday were election-relatedand even in the U.S., it was the second-most trending term on Thursday.

 From Jedi robes to couture gowns
Fans around the world donned their best Princess Leia and Stormtrooper costumes for Star Wars Day on Monday. Celebrated on May 4 (May the Fourth Be with You, get it?) thanks in large part to the Internet, the holiday has been growing for the past few years in search, but we saw the biggest spike yet in 2015. In addition to Leia and Stormtrooper, top costume searches on Monday include [yoda dog] and [female jedi costume]. Interest in the upcoming movie Star Wars: The Force Awakens doubled, and other popular questions include Is Star Wars on Netflix? and What order should you watch Star Wars? 

That same night, the Met Gala brought people to Google to see some of the daring fashion choices from the event. Searches for the red-carpet affair reached 500K. Beyonc, Kim Kardashian and Jennifer Lopez dominated search as people looked for photos of their sheer, jewel-encrusted gowns. Rihannas stunning yellow dress, Anne Hathaways coppery hood and Sarah Jessica Parkers headdress inspired memes as well as searches; and Jason Derulo stumbled into the trends charts after rumors that hed fallen on the Mets stairs.



 The mascot and margaritas 
There were more than a million searches in the U.S. on Tuesday for Cinco de Mayoin fact, for the past two years more searches for the holiday have taken place in the U.S. than in Mexico. As people looked into the history of the holiday, common questions include Who won the Battle of Puebla? and What caused the conflict that led to the Battle of Puebla? But for the most part, people seem to be in it for the food (and, we assume, the margaritas). 



If tacos arent your thing, maybe hamburgers are? This week McDonalds unveiled its new, updated Hamburglar characterand hes very different from the masked mascot you remember from the 80s and 90s. The new Hamburglar is being called the hipster Hamburglar and a hot dad; others are saying he looks creepy or like hes in a midlife crisis. Whether you think the new Hamburglar is well done or a little undercooked, hes stolen our attention to the tune of 20,000 searches.

 Celebrating moms
Finally, Mothers Day is this Sunday, and search interest around the holiday has been on the rise since April as loved ones look for recipes, DIY gift tips, Mothers Day quotes and more. 


 Tip of the week
Sundays not the day to forget a phone call. Set a reminder to call your mom with the Google app now. Then give her a ring just by saying Ok Google, call mom. Find more Mothers Day tips at google.com/mothersday. 

Posted by Emily Wood, Managing Editor, who searched this week for [phantom menace podcast] and [fug girls met ball] We first launched the Transparency Report in 2010 to help the public learn about the scope of government requests for user data. With recent revelations about government surveillance, calls for companies to make encryption keys available to police, and a wide range of proposals, both in and out of the U.S., to expand surveillance powers throughout the world, the issues today are more complicated than ever. Some issues, like ECPA reform, are less complex, and were encouraged by the broad support in Congress for legislation that would codify a standard requiring warrants for communications content.

Googles position remains consistent: We respect the important role of the government in investigating and combating security threats, and we comply with valid legal process. At the same time, well fight on behalf of our users against unlawful requests for data or mass surveillance. We also work to make sure surveillance laws are transparent, principled, and reasonable.

Todays Transparency Report update
With this in mind, were adding some new details to our Transparency Report that were releasing today.


Emergency disclosure requests. Weve expanded our reporting on requests for information we receive in emergency situations. These emergency disclosure requests come from government agencies seeking information to save the life of a person who is in peril (like a kidnapping victim), or to prevent serious physical injury (like a threatened school shooting). We have a process for evaluating and fast-tracking these requests, and in true emergencies we can provide the necessary data without delay. The Transparency Report previously included this number for the United States, but were now reporting for every country that submits this sort of request.
Preservation requests. Were also now reporting on government requests asking us to set aside information relating to a particular users account. These requests can be made so that information needed in an investigation is not lost while the government goes through the steps to get the formal legal process asking us to disclose the information. We call these "preservation requests" and because they don't always lead to formal data requests, we keep them separate from the country totals we report. Beginning with this reporting period, were reporting this number for every country.


In addition to this new data, the report shows that weve received 30,138 requests from around the world seeking information about more than 50,585 users/accounts; we provided information in response to 63 percent of those requests. We saw slight increases in the number of requests from governments in Europe (2 percent) and Asia/Pacific (7 percent), and a 22 percent increase in requests from governments in Latin America.

The fight for increased transparency
Sometimes, laws and gag-orders prohibit us from notifying someone that a request for their data has been made. There are some situations where these restrictions make sense, and others not so much. We will fightsometimes through lengthy court actionfor our users right to know when data requests have been made. Weve recently succeeded in a couple of important cases.

First, after years of persistent litigation in which we fought for the right to inform Wikileaks of government requests for their data, we were successful in unsealing court documents relating to these requests. Were now making those documents available to the public here and here. 

Second, we've fought to be more transparent regarding the U.S. government's use of National Security Letters, or NSLs. An NSL is a special type of subpoena for user information that the FBI issues without prior judicial oversight. NSLs can include provisions prohibiting the recipient from disclosing any information about it. Reporters speculated in 2013 that we challenged the constitutionality of NSLs; after years of litigation with the government in several courts across multiple jurisdictions, we can now confirm that we challenged 19 NSLs and fought for our right to disclose this to the public. We also recently won the right to release additional information about those challenges and the documents should be available on the public court dockets soon.

Finally, just yesterday, the U.S. House of Representatives voted 338-88 to pass the USA Freedom Act of 2015. This represents a significant step toward broader surveillance reform, while preserving important national security authorities. Read more on our U.S. Public Policy blog.

Posted by Richard Salgado, Legal Director, Law Enforcement and Information Security When we started designing the worlds first fully self-driving vehicle, our goal was a vehicle that could shoulder the entire burden of driving.  Vehicles that can take anyone from A to B at the push of a button could transform mobility for millions of people, whether by reducing the 94 percent of accidents caused by human error(PDF), reclaiming the billions of hours wasted in traffic, or bringing everyday destinations and new opportunities within reach of those who might otherwise be excluded by their inability to drive a car. 

Now were announcing the next step for our project: this summer, a few of the prototype vehicles weve created will leave the test track and hit the familiar roads of Mountain View, Calif., with our safety drivers aboard.



Our safety drivers will test fully self-driving vehicle prototypes like this one on the streets of Mountain View, Calif., this summer.

Weve been running the vehicles through rigorous testing at our test facilities, and ensuring our software and sensors work as theyre supposed to on this new vehicle. The new prototypes will drive with the same software that our existing fleet of self-driving Lexus RX450h SUVs uses. That fleet has logged nearly a million autonomous miles on the roads since we started the project, and recently has been self-driving about 10,000 miles a week. So the new prototypes already have lots of experience to draw onin fact, its the equivalent of about 75 years of typical American adult driving experience. 


Each prototypes speed is capped at a neighborhood-friendly 25mph, and during this next phase of our project well have safety drivers aboard with a removable steering wheel, accelerator pedal, and brake pedal that allow them to take over driving if needed.  Were looking forward to learning how the community perceives and interacts with the vehicles, and to uncovering challenges that are unique to a fully self-driving vehiclee.g., where it should stop if it cant stop at its exact destination due to construction or congestion. In the coming years, wed like to run small pilot programs with our prototypes to learn what people would like to do with vehicles like this. If youd like to follow updates about the project and share your thoughts, please join us on our Google+ page. See you on the road!

Posted by Chris Urmson, Director, Google Self-Driving Car Project
 This week people said goodbye to a blues legend, and hello to a (possible) new face of American money. Read on for more on this week in search:

Amtraks tragic accident
First up, we saw a rise in searches for Amtrak after a train that was traveling at more than 100 miles an hour derailed Tuesday night in Philadelphia. The accident killed eight people and injured more than 200, and led people to the web to ask questions about the derailment and about train safety in general. There were more than 500,000 searches for Amtrak on Tuesday, and top questions included How fast do Amtrak trains go? and When will Amtrak resume service?

Madness down under
Mad Max: Fury Road comes out in theaters today, and anticipation for the fourth film in the classic series is running high. The movie, a dystopian thriller set in Australia starring Tom Hardy and Charlize Theron, appeared on the Hot Trends list twice this week, with more than 500,000 searches yesterday. 

While a battle for survival in the Outback takes place on screen, a real-life high-stakes story was playing out this week in Australia. The government told the actor Johnny Depp that he had to remove his two Yorkie dogs from the country by Saturday or they would be euthanized. Australia has strict laws about bringing animals into the country, and Boo and Pistol hadnt followed proper procedure. There were more than 50,000 searches in the U.S. for the actor as people followed the doggie drama. But thats nothing compared to searches in Australia:


Sing the blues
Today, people are saying goodbye to B.B. King, who died yesterday at the age of 89. The blues guitarist (the name B.B. comes from Blues Boy) was a legend in music circles, and influenced stars like Jimi Hendrix and Eric Clapton. More than half a million searches and an outpouring of memories followed the news of his death. 

American Idol fans are saying farewell to the popular Fox show. Idol crowned its 14th winner this week, Connecticut-based Nick Fradiani, and announced that next season will be its last. There were more than 200K searches for the show the day of the finale and announcement. And elsewhere in long-running Fox TV series news, The Simpsons voice actor Harry Shearer (the voice of Mr. Burns, Ned Flanders and many other beloved yellow characters), wont be back for the shows 27th season. Show co-creator James L. Brooks isnt giving up hope, though, and neither, it seems, are searchers, who sent Shearer into the top charts yesterday.

Ladies in green
Searches spiked for Harriet Tubman this week after the abolitionist and Underground Railroad hero won an online poll about who should be the new face of the $20 bill. More than 600K people voted in the Women on 20s campaign, in the end choosing Tubman over Eleanor Roosevelt by a slim margin. The petition would need to be approved by the Secretary of the Treasury.

Regardless of whose face is on the front, youd need 8 million 20s to buy Women in Algiers, the Picasso painting that broke records this week at Christies in New York when it sold for $160 million. The anonymous buyer made the cubist painting the most expensive to ever sell at auction, and now its the top Picasso painting in search to boot. 


Posted by Emily Wood, Managing Editor, who searched this week for [the craft] and [when did the twilight zone start] Update, 8/21/2015: Weve extended this to desktop now too, and in English everywhere.

Starting today, were bringing Tweets to Google Search on mobile devices. So now when youre searching on the Google app or any browser on your phone or tablet, you can find real-time content from Twitter right in the search results. 

Whether youre interested in the latest from Taylor Swift, news about the #MadMenFinale, or updates on the NBA playoffs, youll have access to it directly from Google. Lets use NASA as an examplejust ask the Google app about NASA Twitter, and in the search results, youll see Tweets from @NASA:



Or if you heard today was Malcolm Xs birthday, you can ask the Google app and see what various people and organizations in the Twitter community are saying about it.



Its a great way to get real-time info when something is happening. And its another way for organizations and people on Twitter to reach a global audience at the most relevant moments.

To start, were launching this on Google.com in English in the Google app (on Android and iOS) and on mobile browsers, rolling out gradually. Were working on bringing it to more languages and to desktop, so stay tuned.

Posted by Ardan Arac, Senior Product Manager Between finding out what everyone has always wanted to say to Dave Letterman, and singing along to Taylors Bad Blood, heres a look at what everyone was searching for this week:

Deadly biker brawl
A shooting between rival motorcycle gangs in Waco, Texas, left nine dead and more than 170 people in jail this week. There were more than 500,000 searches for Waco shooting on Sunday as people asked questions like What biker gangs are in Texas? and What county is Waco, Texas in? to try to understand why the shooting may have happened.

An NBA family affair
The NBA playoffs continue to be a top topic in search as the conference finals began this week, with the Golden State Warriors and the Houston Rockets matchup garnering the most attention. (The Cavaliers made the trends charts on Wednesday, but otherwise all eyes are on the West.) After going down 2-0 to the Warriors, the Rockets are in the spotlight, with 200,000+ searches following their game 1 loss. But the search standout, not surprisingly, is NBA MVP and Warriors point guard Stephen Curry. And not just for his sweet three-point stroke. There were 50,000+ searches for his mom, Sonya Curry, after she appeared looking ageless at Tuesdays game, while others were interested in his daughter Rileys post-game press conference hijinks. In fact, three out of the top five Curry-related searches on Wednesday were about his family.

Thanks, Dave
David Letterman ended his 33-year career in late-night TV on Wednesday night. His farewell show featured favorite clips from the past, some classic Dave self-deprecation and a Top 10 list to top all Top 10 lists starring celebs like Steve Martin, Julia Louis-Dreyfus and (Daves apparent favorite) Peyton Manning. Dave was at the top of the search list, too, with more than 500,000+ searchesconsider it a small consolation for not getting The Tonight Show. Top questions leading up to the last show included How tall is David Letterman? and Who is taking over for Letterman? (Answer: someone else who brought a crew of celebs to his final show last December.)

Billboard stars
The Billboard Music Awards swept the search charts on Sunday, with big-time winner Taylor Swift at the top of the pack. Swift had a big night, taking home eight trophies and a million searches. She also debuted her much-buzzed-about music video for Bad Blood, which featured Kendrick Lamar and a full squad of Taylors celebrity friends, including Cindy Crawford, Lena Dunham and Karlie Kloss. The video broke the Vevo recordwith more than 20 million views in 24 hours, and appeared in Hot Trends twice. But even Taylor has to share the spotlight sometime: people were also searching for show performers Iggy Azalea, John Legend, Kelly Clarkson and Wiz Khalifa.


Elsewhere in Billboard news, the soundtrack for Pitch Perfect 2 climbed to No. 1 on the Billboard 200 this week as fans became hooked on the fun cover songs and mashups. The movie has been big in search over the past week, with lots of interest in the cast, particularly Rebel Wilson.

Tip of the week
Now you can find real-time content from Twitter in your Google search results on mobile. So if you want to see what others are saying about tonights Cavaliers/Hawks game, just ask Google. 

Posted by Emily Wood, Managing Editor, who searched this week for [leighton meester] and [how many cows are there in the world] Todays guest blog post is from Tam OShaughnessylife partner of astronaut Sally Ride, and co-founder & CEO of Sally Ride Science. Over the past few months, Tam worked with our Doodle team to create a doodle for Sallys 64th birthday. In this post, she tells us more about Sallys life, her flight aboard the space shuttle Challenger, and her passion for helping kids stay excited about science and technology. -Ed.

As the first American woman in space, Sally Ridewho would have been 64 todaycaptured the nations imagination as a symbol of the ability of women to break barriers. But her historic flight represented just one aspect of a remarkable and multifaceted life. She was also a physicist, a science writer, and an inspirational advocate for keeping kids excited about science as they go through school.

Sally was born on May 26, 1951, in Los Angeles. She grew up playing with a chemistry set and small telescopeand playing football in the streets with the neighborhood kids. Later she considered playing professional tennis, but decided instead to study science. 

In 1977, Sally was finishing her Ph.D. in physics at Stanford University when she saw an article in the student newspaper saying that NASA was looking for astronautsand for the first time was allowing women to apply. Sally didnt hesitate to send in her application, and became one of six women selected as part of the new crop of astronaut candidates. On June 18, 1983, she soared into history as the first American woman in space.



A look behind the scenes of today's Sally Ride doodle, narrated by the artist of the doodle, Olivia Huynh, and Tam O'Shaughnessy

Looking back at Earth through the window of the space shuttle, Sally was moved by the view of our beautiful blue planet wrapped in its thin blanket of air. She realized how important it is for all of us to take care of our fragile home in space, and became an environmentalist. Many years later, we wrote books for young adults about Earths changing climate.

After leaving NASA, Sally became a professor of physics at the University of California, San Diego. She loved being a scientist, but she was concerned that many young peopleespecially girls and minority studentsabandon their early interest in science and math. 

Studies show that the reason kids turn away from STEM (science, technology, engineering, and math) is not that they dont like it or arent good it. Instead, young people get turned off because society sends false messages about who scientists are, what they do, and how they work. So Sally decided to use her high profile to motivate young people to stick with their interest in science and to consider pursuing STEM careers. 

In 2001, Sally and I and three friends started Sally Ride Science to create programs and publications that bring science to life and show young people that STEM is fascinating, creative, and fun. Since then, weve trained thousands of teachers on how to spark and sustain interest in STEM and reached millions of students with our books and programs. 

Sally died almost three years ago on July 23, 2012, from pancreatic cancer. But I know she would be honored by todays Google Doodle. With whimsy, it expresses Sallys sense of fun and adventure, and her ability to inspire young people. And who knowsmaybe her Doodle will motivate some girl or boy somewhere in the world to become a scientist and adventurer just like Sally. 

Sally said it best . . .

Everywhere I go I meet girls and boys who want to be astronauts and explore space, or they love the ocean and want to be oceanographers, or they love animals and want to be zoologists, or they love designing things and want to be engineers. I want to see those same stars in their eyes in 10 years and know they are on their way!

Posted by Tam OShaughnessy, Co-Founder & CEO of Sally Ride Science When Laura Palmaro was 10 years old, she woke one morning to find that the central vision in her left eye had all but disappeared. She was not ill and had no genetic issuesit was completely out of the blue. When she was 14, the same rare condition struck her right eye, and she began her freshman year of high school legally blind. Suddenly she was forced to depend on other people to read everything aloud, from school assignments to menus. The toughest part, according to Laura, was losing her sense of independenceand not knowing when or how she would get it back.

Laura has since adopted technological solutions to her vision challenges, using a combination of screen-readers and magnification software to read, work and more. Now a program manager at Google, she is following her passion, helping Chrome and Chrome OS teams make their products more accessible. Technology has truly transformed my life, she says. Assistive technology can tear down boundaries, and empower people to find their independence and fulfill their dreams.

We agree with Laura about the power of technology to change lives. And in order to support more people like herpeople who see obstacles as opportunitieswere launching the Google Impact Challenge: Disabilities. Were putting $20 million in Google.org grants behind nonprofits using emerging technologies to increase independence for people living with disabilities, and today were issuing an open call to identify new areas of opportunity at g.co/ImpactChallengeDisability.

Were kicking things off with support for two remarkable organizations. Each of these organizations is using technology to dramatically reduce the cost of and access to prosthetic limbs and auditory therapy, respectivelywhich could be transformative for hundreds of millions of people.


The Enable community connects people who want prosthetics with volunteers who use 3D printers to design, print, assemble, and fit them, for free.  This dramatically cuts costs,  increases  speed of distribution, and meets unmet needs.  Well support the Enable Community Foundation's efforts with a $600,000 grant to advance the design, distribution and delivery of open-source 3D-printed upper-limb prosthetics.
Diagnosing auditory challenges can be a struggle in low income communitiesthe equipment is expensive, bulky and unrealistic, particularly in the developing world. With our support, and a $500,000 grant, World Wide Hearing will develop, prototype and test an extremely low cost tool kit for hearing loss using smartphone technology thats widely availableand affordablein the developing world.


The Google Impact Challenge: Disabilities will seek out nonprofits and help them find new solutions to some serious what ifs for the disabled community. We will choose the best of these ideas and help them to scale by investing in their vision, by rallying our people and by mobilizing our resources in support of their missions.


But of course, we realize theres always room to improve our products as well. We have a team committed to monitoring the accessibility of Google tools; and we provide engineering teams with training to incorporate accessibility principles into products and services. That doesnt just mean improving existing Google tools, it means developing new ones as well. For example, Liftware is a stabilizing utensil designed to help people with hand tremors eat more easily, and self-driving cars could one day transform mobility for everyone.

Historically, people living with disabilities have relied on technologies that were often bulky, expensive, and limited to assisting with one or two specific tasks. But thats beginning to change. Thanks to groups like Enable and World Wide Hearing, and with tools like Liftware, were starting to see the potential for technologies that can profoundly and affordably impact millions. But well all get there sooner if we make it a team effortwhich is why were launching Google Impact Challenge: Disabilities today. Together, we can create a better world, faster. 

Posted by Jacquelline Fuller, Director, Google.org Every second of every day, people around the world are capturing their memories through photos and videos. Humankind has already taken trillions of photos and will take another trillion this year alone.

But the more moments we capture, the more challenging it becomes to relive those memories. Photos and videos become littered across mobile devices, old computers, hard drives and online services (which are constantly running out of space). Its almost impossible to find that one photo right at the moment you need it, and sharing a bunch of photos at once is frustrating, often requiring special apps and logins. 

We wanted to do better. So today were introducing Google Photosa new, standalone product that gives you a home for all your photos and videos, helps you organize and bring your moments to life, and lets you share and save what matters.


A home for all your photos and videos
Google Photos gives you a single, private place to keep a lifetime of memories, and access them from any device. Theyre automatically backed up and synced, so you can have peace of mind that your photos are safe, available across all your devices.  

And when we say a lifetime of memories, we really mean it. With Google Photos, you can now backup and store unlimited, high-quality photos and videos, for free. We maintain the original resolution up to 16MP for photos, and 1080p high-definition for videos, and store compressed versions of the photos and videos in beautiful, print-quality resolution. For all the storage details, visit our help center.


Organize and bring your moments to life 
Google Photos automatically organizes your memories by the people, places, and things that matter. You dont have to tag or label any of them, and you dont need to laboriously create albums. When you want to find a particular shot, with a simple search you can instantly find any photowhether its your dog, your daughters birthday party, or your favorite beach in Santa Barbara. And all of this auto-grouping is private, for your eyes only.


The app can also help you quickly enhance photos and combine them in new ways to help you relive your lifes moments. In one tap, get instant adjustments tuned to the photos color, lighting, and subject to make each photo look its best. Press the + button to create your own collages, animations, movies with soundtracks, and more.

If you swipe to the left, youll open the Assistant view, where well suggest new things made with your photos and videos, such as a collage or a story based on a recent trip you took. After previewing the creation, you can choose to keep, edit, or discard it.


Easily share and save what matters 
With Google Photos, you have the choice to share your photos and videos however you want across any service you choose, from Hangouts to Twitter to WhatsApp. But even then, its still remarkably difficult to share a lot of photos just with friends and family and keep the ones shared with youit usually involves a lot of downloading and re-uploading across a number of different services. We wanted to make sharing much simpler and more reliable. 

You can now take any set of photos and videos, or any album, and simply create a link to share hundreds of photos at once. The recipient can see what you shared without a special app or login, then immediately save the high-quality images to their own library with a single tap. So now its easier to hang on to the photos you care about even if you werent the one holding the camera.


If you want to give Google Photos a whirl, it's available now on Android, iOS and the web. With this launch we've made a lot of progress towards eliminating many of the frustrations involved in storing, editing and sharing your memories. But we have a lot more in storeso as you keep snapping photos and capturing videos, well keep working on making them even easier to store, share and bring to life. 

Posted by Anil Sabharwal, Head of Google Photos This morning, more than 6,000 developers descended on San Franciscos Moscone Center to burn through 1,500 gallons of coffee and join millions of others via live stream for our 8th annual Google I/Oa time to fill people in on what weve been building recently, and how were tackling the future. 

Android growth and momentum
In just a short number of years, mobile technology has completely changed the way we find information and entertainment, communicate with friends and family, and get things done. Having a supercomputer in our pocket is now second nature; today more searches on Google come from mobile than from desktop computers, and by some estimates there are more mobile devices than there are people on the planet. For evidence of the mobile revolution, look no further than the growth of Android. There are now more than one billion Android users worldwidea long way from when we launched the first Android phone back in 2008. And there are 4,000 unique Android devices on the market, from more than 400 manufacturers and over 500 carriers.

The devices themselves have changed a lot, too. In todays multi-screen world, you can now use Android on your phone, your tablet, your wrist, in your car and in your living room, and move seamlessly between each. Many of these new form factors have arrived just in the last year. You can now choose from seven different Android Wear watches, not to mention bands, styles, and more than 1,500 watch faces built by developers.

By the end of this year, 35 car models will offer Android Auto, helping you access Search, Maps, music and other information through your cars controls. And the first sets running Android TV have now arrived. 

With all of these new places and devices for people to use Android, developers have even more opportunities to build the apps that people use for education and engagement and entertainment. So today we talked about the new tools and features were giving them to build more powerful experiences on the Android platform.


M is for more performance and an improved user experience
Android M is the most powerful Android release yet, with hundreds of improvements made to the platform. Among the highlights, weve improved battery life and streamlined permissions for apps to make it easier for you to decide what information the apps on your phone can use. We previewed Android Pay, which lets you pay for things with your phone, without even opening an app. And were making it much easier to find information in apps, as well as making some important updates to Google Now (more on that below!).

Organizing the worlds information, better
Your mobile phone packs a lot of information, but its not always easy to find that nugget of information when you need itas you know if youve ever tried to navigate your email, organize hundreds of photos across devices, or search for restaurant reviews when youre chatting about dinner plans with friends. Luckily, finding and organizing information is something Google is good at (some might even call it our mission). 

So as part of M release, were expanding Google Nowto give people on-demand assistance in the moment they need itlike seeing if theres an open table at a new restaurant or when and where Pitch Perfect 2 is playingno matter where you are on your phone. Were also making it much easier to find new apps and in-app contentwhich is good news for both users and developers.

Weve also put our years of research into machine learning to work in other ways, making Search more useful and your inbox more insightful. And now its also helping you make sense of all your photos. Today we launched a new Photos appthat gives you a single place for all your photos and videos, and helps you sort through them more quickly, bring them to life in cool new ways, and share them however you choose.

A new platform for the Internet of Things
Were surrounded by devices, but they often exist independently of each other. Our day-to-day lives will be much simpler when these technologies can talk to each otherif our recipe app, for example, could communicate with our smart oven to turn the temperature to exactly the right setting. ?Or outside the homefrom transportation systems that notify commuters of schedule changes, to farms where harvesters and irrigation systems are controlled from phones. ?

But many roadblocks remainthe user experience is inconsistent and confusing, manufacturers often redo their work for every device, devices dont interoperate, and developers often have no way to create great experiences across devices.

Enter Project Brillo, a new platform derived from Android that lets developers and manufacturers build connected devices. As part of Brillo, were introducing a communications protocol (Weave) developed in partnership with Nest, a set of developer APIs, a core set of schemas and a certification program to ensure device and app interoperability.

Although it will launch later this year, we previewed Brillo today because were committed to fostering a vibrant ecosystem in which we all work together to move the industry forward.

New mobile experiences
Mobile has evolved so much in the past few years, with connected screens for different experiences depending on your needs. But we are just at the start of what will prove to be a much more immersive mobile experience. At last years I/O we introduced Cardboard, which lets you turn your phone into a virtual reality experience. Now there are more than 500 Cardboard apps for film, games, tours and learning, and more than 1 million Cardboard viewers have been shipped. Today we announced iOS support for developers and debuted Google Expeditions, which lets students take virtual trips with Cardboard to places like the moon and underwater. We also shared a preview of Jump, which lets you capture the world in video that you can step inside of. 

The next billion users
The first billion users of the Internet came online through desktops. The next billion are taking a different path to computingcoming online through mobile and smartphonesand present a unique set of opportunities and challenges. Were working hard on ensure these people have a great experience across our products. 

In addition to making devices more affordable with Chromebooks and Android One (now in seven countries), were making changes to ensure that our software works even where there arent great Internet connections. Weve launched a streamlined version of our Search results page in 13 countries, and 73 million people now use data saver mode in Chrome to browse the web more efficiently. Finally, we previewed the new offline mapsthats right, and its as simple as it soundsmaps that you can take offline, even with turn-by-turn directions.

Solving complex problems for a mobile world
From our earliest days in Search, our aim has always been to build products for everyone, applying unique technical insight to tackle big problems. Thats just as relevant in todays mobile-centric worldfrom finding the information scattered across apps, to helping someone organize and share the photos of their kids; from taking people on a virtual trip to the Pyramids to helping the next billion people come online.

And by providing a platform on top of which any developer can innovate, we can reach people around the world and put the power of the Internet in their handsno matter what device they use, where they live or who they are.

So heres to the mobile revolution. We cant wait to see what comes next.

Posted by Sundar Pichai, Senior Vice President, Products Every adventure starts somewhere, and YouTubes began on Saturday, April 23, 2005, when "Me at the Zoo" became the first video uploaded to a new site no one had ever heard of. Captured at California's San Diego Zoo, the clip is a 19-second description of what exactly makes elephants so cool. Its brief runtime and casual setup suggest little of the online video craziness that would follow over the subsequent decade. 

But it turns out Me at the Zoo proved to be a simple distillation of the premise of the new platform, where anyone could just turn on a camera and broadcast themselves with ease.  Who could have predicted that, in that same environment, new genres, new forms of expression, and new paths to stardom would evolve? That engaging and unique personalities borne of this place could be more influential than Hollywood's biggest names? Or that more than a billion people from all corners of the globe would come together in that space to experience what the world creates, broadcasts, and shares?

Yeah. We were surprised, too. 

For our 10th birthday this month, we've gone from A to Z celebrating the adorable, empowering, awesome, weird and wonderfulmoments that represent the many sides of YouTube. But, of course, if we're really going to capture 10 years of YouTube, we're going to need to do it in  a video:

Thanks for a wild and inspiring 10 years. Now, you've got 300 hours of video to capture and share in the next minute. So get back to it!

**Bonus Points: How well do you know YouTube, A to Z? Play the YouTube trivia game to find out at YouTube.com/10.

Posted by the YouTube Team From corruption charges rocking the football world to a 50-foot dinosaur, heres a look at what everyone was searching this week:

Deadly storms in Texas
Widespread flooding caused by heavy rains in Texas and Oklahoma has left many dead, missing or unaccounted for, along with seriously damaged property and abandoned vehicles. With more severe weather predicted this weekend, cities across Texas topped the places searching for storms, with How long does it take for streets to clear a flood? and where is it flooded in Houston among the top storm-related questions.


Soccer scandal 
Footballs governing body was in the search spotlight this week after the arrest of several FIFA officials in a dawn raid at a hotel in Zurich, Switzerland.  There were more than half a million FIFA searches on Tuesday alone, with a top related question being the basic What is FIFA? (perhaps for those that call it soccer). Just as fans of The Beautiful Game span the globe, so do searches related to this weeks alleged ugliness. Costa Rica and Uruguayhome to two of the indicted officialsare among the top 10 countries searching for #FIFAarrests. 



Hold on to your butts ... again
Its a Jurassic World. We just live in it. Twenty-two years after the original Jurassic Park movie, the release of Jurassic World is set to wow audiences worldwide, and ticket pre-sales and general dino-excitement have caused a 100,000+ search spike, while the trailer has topped 60 million YouTube views. Search-wise, the U.S. and Australia are most excited about the blockbuster, which will pit star Chris Pratt against a 50-foot-tall dinosaur named Indominus Rex. Well have to wait until June for the showdown, but based on current search interest, our money's on Pratt. 

Tip of the week
This weekend is Manhattanhenge, the moment when the setting sun aligns precisely with Manhattans street grid. Whether youre in New York or not, you can find out when the sun will dip below the horizon with a simple Ok Google, when does the sun set? Youll get an answer tailored for your location.

Posted by Abbi Tatton, who searched, a little indignantly, this week for [why do babies say dada first?] We've all been there at some point or another
You just lost your phone and want to wipe your personal information.
You attend an event, and you want to share your photos with some people (but not everyone).
You hesitate as you download another app that's asking for a lot of information.

Everyday, we make choices that affect our privacy and security online. Most people, however, dont feel they have the right level of control to make these important decisions. According to a recent Pew study, 93 percent of people think its important to control access to their personal information, and 90 percent care about the type of information thats collected about them. But only 9 percent feel they have a lot of control over it. We want to change that.

Google builds simple, powerful privacy and security tools that keep your information safe and put you in control of it. At Google I/O, we announced that people will have more control over the information they provide to mobile apps in the M release, the next version of Android. Today, were rolling out two significant improvements to our privacy and security tools: a new hub for managing your Google settings called My Account, and a new site that answers important questions about privacy and security on Google.

Privacy and security controls, all in one place
Privacy and security are two sides of the same coin: if your information isnt secure, it certainly cant be private. My Accountgives you quick access to the settings and tools that help you safeguard your data, protect your privacy, and decide what information is used to make Google services work better for you. It also provides more context to help you understand your options and make the right choices for you.


Here are some of the things you can do with My Account:


Take the Privacy Checkup and Security Checkup, our simple, step-by-step guides through your most important privacy and security settings.
Manage the information that can be used from Search, Maps, YouTube and other products to enhance your experience on Google. For example, you can turn on and off settings such as Web and App Activity, which gets you more relevant, faster search results, or Location History, which enables Google Maps and Now to give you tips for a faster commute back home.
Use the Ads Settings tool to control ads based on your interests and the searches youve done.
Control which apps and sites are connected to your account.

We built My Account to be a resource for everyone, even if you don't have a Google Account. Check out your controls at myaccount.google.com.

Answering your questions about privacy and security 
We listen to feedback from people around the world to better understand their concerns about privacy and security. In addition to My Account, we want to help people find answers to common questions on these topics, such as: "What data does Google collect? What does Google do with the data it collects? What tools do I have to control my Google experience?" 

Our new site, privacy.google.com, candidly answers these questions, and more. We also explain how we show relevant ads without selling your personal information, how encryption and spam filtering help keep your data safe, and how your information helps customize your experience on Google. Visit this site often to learn about new tools, features, and information that can help you make the choices that are right for you.


When you trust your personal information with us, you should expect powerful controls that keep it safe and private as well as useful answers to your questions. Todays launches are just the latest in our ongoing efforts to protect you and your information on Google. Theres much more to come, and we look forward to your feedback.

Posted by Guemmy Kim, Product Manager, Account Controls and Settings Theres no question the world is wild about football. Last year, we watched in awe of the 2.1 billion search queries related to the World Cup. And regardless of whether its a tournament year, football (or soccer if you please) crushes the competition as the most-searched sport worldwide.

But heres something that surprised us: the world searches three times more for girls soccer (and football) than for boys socceryet, only 1 percent of global searches for professional soccer are for womens teams, while the other 99 percent are for mens teams. Thats not for a lack of amazing performance on the field by women athletesrather, it's because womens sports have historically been paid less attention than mens. For instance, womens football was banned by the English FA (and other European organizations) until the 1970s, and it didnt become an Olympic sport until 1996.




We care deeply about inspiring the next generation of girls to become leaderswhether theyre in the technology field or on the soccer pitch. So we got to thinking about how Search can help people discover all the amazing stories of womens soccer that have historically been overlooked. During the 2015 Womens World Cup, well share search trends, stats and more to help you get to know these athletes and their talents on the field.

Heres how to follow along and cheer on the remarkable women of pro soccer: 

Check out our homepage Doodle. Todays Doodle celebrates the start of the Cup. Check back for more as the tournament progresses.  


Follow the tournament in search. Search for [womens world cup 2015] on your Android phone to get brackets, game times and updated scores.



Keep up with the latest. Follow us on Twitter and Google+to find out more about womens soccer, its history, rising stars and the major trending moments during the tournament. Google Search can also help you discover more about womens football, past and present. For instance, try asking the Google app when was the first Womens World Cup held? The answer may surprise you.

Thats just the startwere also teaming up with official sponsor Adidas to share more from the players throughout the tournament. See you at the games!

Posted by Madeline Kane, Social Impact Team From a seriously groundbreaking Vanity Fair cover model to a sporting trifecta, see what the Internet was searching for this week.

Call me Caitlyn
Caitlyn Jenner topped the trends this week, with more than 10 million searches since she introduced herself to the world on Monday with a Vanity Fair cover story. Her high-profile transition has put Jenner at the center of an active national dialogue about transgender equality and rights. The news dominated headlines and news feeds for several daysin fact, searches for Jenner were nearly seven times higher than than searches for Kim Kardashian, who announced her second pregnancy with husband Kanye West over the weekend.



Remembering Beau Biden
Another well-known family shared the search spotlight this week, although for very different reasons. Beau Biden, Delaware attorney general and son of Vice President Joe Biden, died of brain cancer on May 30. Searches for news about his life and death topped 100,000 ahead of memorial services held in his honor on Thursday, Friday and Saturday.

All the sports
With the NBA and Stanley Cup finals underway, and the Womens World Cup set to kick off over the weekend, it was a particularly sports-heavy week on search. People wanted to know where and when to tune in for the NBA games, and while How many times has Lebron James been to the finals was one of the top questions, searches for Warriors star Steph Curry were higher than searches for James in nearly every state.



On the hockey front, the Chicago Blackhawks, who currently lead the series 1-0, are also dominating the search trends over the Tampa Bay Lightning. Meanwhile, soccer fans are heading to Google to search for Womens World Cup teams and players as they await to see who emerges from the tournaments group-stage.

Summertime sadness
It may not be June 21 yet, but school is out, temperatures are up and Memorial Day weekend is practically a distant memory. Summer is here, and for everyone looking to get out of town, Southwest Airlines had just the thing: a 72-hour sale. With plane tickets at less than $100, turns out too many people wanted to get out of towntraffic from would-be travelers crashed Southwests website for two days, while searches about the sale and the site topped 500,000. 

Tip of the Week
No time to watch the game this weekend? Find out what you missedjust ask the Google app, Who won the Warriors game? to get box scores, video highlights and more.

Posted by Megan Slack, who searched this week for [Biden photo gallery] and [can you make fried rice in the microwave]. As a kid, I spent hours on the living room couch playing video games with friends, taking turns trying to beat Ganon in "Ocarina of Time" and trading Pokmon until I had all 151. Soon controller passing and Game Boy link cables gave way to network multiplayer and PC LAN parties. Eventually, my living room became a virtual one, with a network of gamers sharing experiences and discoveries.



Today, the gaming world is much more diverse than the one I grew up with, and the community has created new formats that have made gaming more collaborative and interactive. On YouTube, gaming has spawned entirely new genres of videos, from lets plays, walkthroughs, and speedruns to cooking and music videos. Now, its our turn to return the favor with something built just for gamers. 


This summer, we'll launch  YouTube Gaming, a brand new app and website to keep you connected to the games, players, and culture that matter to you, with videos, live streams, and the biggest community of gamers on the weball in one place.





YouTube Gaming is built to be all about your favorite games and gamers, with more videos than anywhere else. From "Asteroids" to "Zelda," more than 25,000 games will each have their own page, a single place for all the best videos and live streams about that title. Youll also find channels from a wide array of game publishers and YouTube creators.

Keeping up with these games and channels is now super easy, too. Add a game to your collection for quick access whenever you want to check up on the latest videos. Subscribe to a channel, and you'll get a notification as soon as they start a live stream. Uncover new favorites with recommendations based on the games and channels you love. And when you want something specific, you can search with confidence, knowing that typing call will show you Call of Duty and not Call Me Maybe.








Live streams bring the gaming community closer together, so weve put them front-and-center on the YouTube Gaming homepage. And in the coming weeks, well launch an improved live experience that makes it simpler to broadcast your gameplay to YouTube. On top of existing features like high frame rate streaming at 60fps, DVR, and automatically converting your stream into a YouTube video, were redesigning our system so that you no longer need to schedule a live event ahead of time. Were also creating single link you can share for all your streams.

YouTube Gaming will be available this summer, starting in the U.S. and U.K. Were building this just for gamersso we want to hear from you about how we can make it the best way to connect with your community. If youre at E3 next week, come by our booth for an early look at everything weve been working on. If not, tune in live from home at youtube.com/e3, head over to gaming.youtube.com and follow us @YouTubeGaming and youll be the first to know when YouTube Gaming is ready for you to play with.

Posted by Alan Joyce, Product Manager LeBron and Steph. Marge and Homer. Matt and Sweat. These duos had people searching this week. Read on for more:

Jailbreak
Two prisoners made headlines this week after escaping from the Clinton Correctional Facility in upstate New York. People are coming to Google to learn how the two broke out of the prison and about the status of the manhunt, which is still ongoing. In addition to more than 100K searches each for [prison escape] and the facility itself, people are asking questions like How often do prisoners escape? and How many prison escapes are there per year? The incident has also sparked interest in other prison escape tales; search interest in The Shawshank Redemption spiked 8X in the past week.

And in happier, more fictional prison news, Netflix dropped the third season of Orange is the New Black six hours early yesterday, leading to a jump of 500,000K searches for the hit show.

High stakes
Next, the NBA Finals are heating up as the Cleveland Cavaliers and Golden State Warriors are now tied at two games apiece, and searchers cant get enough. There were more than 2 million searches for the Finals on Saturday, when the Cavs beat the Warriors in Game 2, and another 5 million when the Warriors went down 2-1 in Game 3 as people looked for scores, news, and players. There were more than 500K searches on Thursday for LeBron James, who got stitches after colliding with a cameraman during the game. Meanwhile, league MVP and Warriors point guard Steph Curry has been a hot topic on Search throughout the playoffs, but as his performance in the Finals faltered in the first few games, search interest in several of his teammates has risen. People have been looking for info about Currys fellow Splash Brother Klay Thompson and about Andre Iguodala, who started his first game of the season on Thursday and may have poked some fun at LeBron James in the process.

Off the court and onto the pitch, its also a great time to be a soccer fan, between the Champions League final, the Copa America, and the Womens World Cup. The latter drew more than 5 million searches on Saturday alone, and as the U.S. faced off against Australia Monday, interest was high in players like Alex Morgan, Hope Solo and Sydney Leroux. Finally, wed be remiss to write about sports this week without mentioning the first Triple Crown winner since 1978, American Pharoah, who won the Belmont Stakes last weekend and ran home with a million searches in the bargain.





Change is in the air
Beyonce was trending this week after revealing that she has adopted a vegan diet on Good Morning America. Many of Queen Beys fans were disappointed that her announcement was about her eating habits, and not the release of a new album or baby #2.

Giving up cheese would be hard enough. But this week pop culture fans confronted the potential loss of something else dear: the long-running (fictional) marriage between Homer and Marge Simpson. With the 27th season of The Simpsons on deck in the fall, the shows executive producer had hinted that TVs longest-running couple might separate. Amidst the outrage and worry, searchers turned to the web to ask Why are the Simpsons getting divorced? Luckily, it seems the rumors are just thatthe show cleared the air on Twitter and in chalk.

Tip of the week
Keep up with Hope, Alex and the rest of the Womens World Cup on your phone. To get updates on all the matches, just open the Google app and click Customize (Settings in iOS) ? Sports ? Add a team. Goooaaalll!

Posted by Emily Wood, Managing Editor, who searched this week for [flights from sfo to lhr] and [izombie max rager utopium] Every journey we take on the web is unique. Yet looked at together, the questions and topics we search for can tell us a great deal about who we are and what we care about. Thats why today we're announcing the biggest expansion of Google Trends since 2012. You can now find real-time data on everything from the FIFA scandal to Donald Trumps presidential campaign kick-off, and get a sense of what stories people are searching for. Many of these changes are based on feedback weve collected through conversations with hundreds of journalists and others around the worldso whether you're a reporter, a researcher, or an armchair trend-tracker, the new site gives you a faster, deeper and more comprehensive view of our world through the lens of Google Search.

Real-time data
You can now explore minute-by-minute, real-time data behind the more than 100 billion searches that take place on Google every month, getting deeper into the topics you care about. During major events like the Oscars or the NBA Finals, youll be able to track the stories most people are searching for and where in the world interest is peaking.  Explore this data by selecting any time range in the last week from the date picker. 


A new story-centric homepage
On the new google.com/trends, youll find a ranked, real-time list of trending stories that are gaining traction across Google. In addition to Search, we now look at trends from YouTube and Google News and combine them to better understand what topics and stories are trending across the web right now. The redesigned homepage is now available in 28 countries around the world, and well continue to add more locations in the coming months. 


Better coverage for deeper insights
Weve also increased the breadth and coverage of Google Trends data to allow for in-depth research on more niche topics in smaller geographies.


Curated data sets
To help you understand the data behind the headlines, our News Lab team examines trending topics every day and finds interesting nuggets of data that bring news stories to life. You can follow us on Twitter to stay up to date. And for data journalists who want to do their own analysis, starting today we'll publish data sets on specific topics to our Github page.


Many newsrooms are already using Google data to inform and shape their reporting. Here are a few examples:

The Washington Post launched an interactive data visualization on climate change where viewers can discover the most pressing environmental issues in various cities.
The Guardian and Buzzfeed used Trends data to tell the story of the recent U.K. election; Buzzfeed produced a map of most-searched party leader in each constituency, and the Guardian used trends during the campaign to showcase what voters were asking Google about the candidates.
HLN integrated Google Trends data into their television programming during LGBT Pride Month to explore when terms like transgender became widely used around the world.
CNN Politics published monthly updates on search interest and top questions around U.S. Presidential candidates as they announce their candidacy.

Were excited to contribute to the growing trend of data-driven storytelling. Watch our video to hear from some of our partners about the role data plays in their work, and how they're helping shape the future of the field:

Without further ado, were going to dive into the minute-by-minute search interest around Steph Curry after last nights Warriors win.  No matter what your interests are, we hope youll visit the new Google Trends to explore your favorite topics and better understand the world around us.

Posted by Nimrod Tamir, Google Trends Team Today, more than a billion people around the world begin observing the holy month of Ramadan, fasting from dawn to sunset, gathering with families and loved ones for meals, laughs and stories. 

Growing up, the best part about Ramadan was eating way too much lentil soup with my family and catching up on the latest episode of our favorite series, "Bab Al-Hara." Today, living more than 1900 miles away from my family, I rely on technology to get close with them during Ramadan. Whether its sharing moments on Hangouts, my sister sending me pictures of the iftar spread of the day, or receiving an avalanche of recipes from my mother for me to save and try out, technology helps us stay connected and celebrate Ramadan together even when away. 

In fact, technology helps more than 200 million Muslims living away from their families connect and share moments with loved ones. People look to Maps to navigate traffic and make it home from work for Iftar, download Google Play apps to plan their day around the sunset and sunrise, and look up Ramadan opening hours of their favorite local shops and restaurants.


To help you get the most out of Ramadan, we've launched My Ramadan Companion (g.co/Ramadan), which gives you customized and locally relevant information, tips, and other content highlighting the richness of what the web can offer during Ramadan around you. You can find out the sunset time in your location and plan your day accordingly, check out the traffic in your area, navigate to the closest charity Iftar, find and share recipes, and enjoy Ramadan content on YouTube ranging from drama series and comedy sketches and health tips to stay fit during the 30 days of fasting.


Depending on your location, Google Now will show you a range of relevant cards with popular YouTube videos, latest Ramadan news and information, and recommendations for apps that alert you to wake up for Suhur, enable you to design greeting cards for Ramadan to share with the family, find Halal restaurants around you, and countdown to Iftar time. 

With My Ramadan Companion, we hope we can help you take care of the little things, so you can focus on the big things. Ramadan Kareem! 

Posted by Zain Kamal Masri, Associate Product Marketing Manager, Middle East and North Africa Pride is one of the worlds greatest celebrations of diversity, one that were excited to support every year. For 2015, were doing something a little different: weve created an online parade, #AndProud, so that people from around the world can celebrate Pride together. 


To join the global parade, visit Androidify, where you can create your own Android character with a fun new Pride wardrobe. During the weekend of June 27-28 your character will party side-by-side with others from around the world in the online parade.

But the celebration doesnt end there. While the virtual parade happens online, thousands of Googlers will hit the streets of San Francisco, London and New York to show their support in those citywide Pride festivals. Some of the best #AndProud characters will appear on big screens as part of Googles pride floats in all three cities.



From left to right, Sam Smith, Tom Daley and Jessie J celebrating the #AndProud parade

In addition to #AndProud and our floats in SF, London and NYC, were celebrating Pride in our offices around the world, and in all sorts of ways across our products. Were excited to be able to extend the celebration and give people around the world a new way to share their Pride.

Hope to see you at the parade!




Posted by Eddie Kalletta and Rich Terry, #AndProud parade marchers The shooting in Charleston, S.C., was the top topic in search this week. Heres a look at what people were searching for after the tragedy, plus a glimpse into what else was on searchers minds this week.

Tragedy in the south
On Wednesday night, a gunman shot and killed nine people at Emanuel African Methodist Episcopal Church, a historic black church in Charleston, S.C. The suspect, Dylann Roof, was arrested Thursday morning, and charged today with nine counts of murder. As people tried to make sense of the story, many turned to the web, leading searches for Charleston shooting to climb to more than 5 million. Top questions in the early morning after the shooting include What was the motive of the hate crime shooting in Charleston? Many were also interested in the Confederate flag, which still flies above the S.C. Capitol building; interest in the flag spiked 20X in the past week in the U.S. as people asked questions like What does the Confederate flag stand for?

Presidential politics
Were still well more than a year away from the 2016 election but the presidential race is already crowded, and getting more so. This week two new candidates joined the fray: Jeb Bush and Donald Trump both announced they plan to run, bringing the total number of Republican candidates to a cool dozen. Though Bush was the most searched candidate in more than 25 states after his announcement, it didnt last long. Following Trumps announcement Tuesday, he became the most searched Republican Presidential candidate in every state in the U.S. Top questions on the newest candidates include Is Jeb Bush related to George Bush? (that would be a yes) and What is Donald Trumps net worth? (he says more than $8 billion; the numbers are disputed).


Must-see TV
This week was big for sports, with Googles own hometown team Golden State Warriors beating the Cleveland Cavaliers to win their first NBA Championship title since 1975. The Warriors were at the top of the search charts on Tuesday with more than 2 million searches. Meanwhile, in hockey, the Chicago Blackhawks edged out the Tampa Bay Lightning to win the Stanley Cup for the second time in three seasons. Winning never gets old, though: interest in Blackhawks apparel spiked 8X in Chicago between June 9-16, and there were more than 20,000+ searches for the Blackhawks parade route, which took place Thursday with more than 2 million attendees. 

Hockey and basketball not your game? Then perhaps you were one of the 8 million people watching the fifth-season finale of HBOs Game of Thrones. (Spoilers for the show follow.) The show was the subject of 2 million searches on Sunday night, as people watched with baited breath to find out what gruesome ends the show had in store for their favorite characters this season. One of the top questions about the show was simply Who died on Game of Thrones?, while others expressed their disbelief by asking Is Jon Snow dead? and Is Stannis dead? There were also more than 200K searches for Lena Headley, who plays Cersei Lannister, and another 20K later in the week for Rebecca Van Cleave, Headleys body double for a scene where Cersei is forced to walk naked through the streets. Finally, there was a lot of interest in Arya Stark, one of few surviving Stark children, whose path on the show has also been one of the strangest.

Tip of the week
This weekend marks the first official day of summer, and that means BBQ season. If youre watching what you eat, Google can help you figure out what to choose at the picnic table. Just ask Google to compare coleslaw and potato salad or compare burgers and pulled pork. 

Posted by Emily Wood, Managing Editor, who searched this week for [jurassic world showtimes] 
 Its hard to think of a more important source of information in the world than quality journalism. At its best, news communicates truth to power, keeps societies free and open, and leads to more informed decision-making by people and leaders. In the past decade, better technology and an open Internet have led to a revolution in how news is created, distributed, and consumed. And given Googles mission to ensure quality information is accessible and useful everywhere, we want to help ensure that innovation in news leads to a more informed, more democratic world.

Thats why weve created the News Lab, a new effort at Google to empower innovation at the intersection of technology and media. Our mission is to collaborate with journalists and entrepreneurs to help build the future of media. And were tackling this in three ways: though ensuring our tools are made available to journalists around the world (and that newsrooms know how to use them); by getting helpful Google data sets in the hands of journalists everywhere; and through programs designed to build on some of the biggest opportunities that exist in the media industry today.


Tools for better reporting 
From Maps to YouTube to Fusion Tables to Earth to Search, we offer many tools that newsrooms can use in their reporting and storytelling. Now, journalists around the world can access tutorials on these products created specifically for newsrooms, at g.co/newslab. Well post short written and video tutorials and case studies that highlight best practices from top newsrooms around the world. As Google develops new products that help journalists, well update these resources regularly. You can also get updates by following us on Twitter and Google+, and by subscribing to our YouTube channel.


Data for more insightful storytelling
Theres a revolution in data journalism happening in newsrooms today, as more data sets and more tools for analysis are allowing journalists to create insights that were never before possible. To help journalists use our data to offer a unique window to the world, last week we announced an update to our Google Trends platform. The new Google Trends provides journalists with deeper, broader, and real-time data, and incorporates feedback we collected from newsrooms and data journalists around the world. Were also helping newsrooms around the world tell stories using data, with a daily feed of curated Google Trends based on the headlines of the day, and through partnerships with newsrooms on specific data experiments. 

Programs focused on the future of media
Were also working with partners to build a series of programs focused on imagining the future of news and information, as well as on empowering new voices in media. One of the opportunities were focused on is increasing the number of media startups in the marketplace. Weve launched partnerships with Matter, a media accelerator in San Francisco, and Hacks/Hackers, a global community group for developers and journalists, to provide financial support and mentorship from Google engineers that will help these organizations expand their impact to more startups around the world. Were also holding a series of TechRaking summits with the Center for Investigative Reporting: hackathons focused on developing new investigative tools such as drones, online databases, and more.

Another area weve focused our programs on is citizen reporting. Now that mobile technology allows anyone to be a reporter, we want to do our part to ensure that user-generated news content is a positive and game-changing force in media. Were doing that with three projectsFirst Draft, the WITNESS Media Lab, and the YouTube Newswireeach of which aims to make YouTube and other open platforms more useful places for first-hand news content from citizen reporters around the world.

The News Lab is a global effort, with teams in the U.S., U.K., France, and Germany to startand were also powering the training and research arm of Googles Digital News Initiative in Europe. 

Google has created many technologies and platforms that have engaged the media industry. As both the media landscape and technology continue to evolve, we believe we can create a more informed world if technologists and journalists work togetherand were excited to be part of the effort.

Posted by Steve Grove, Director, News Lab What if low-income kids had the same opportunity for jobs in the tech sector as students from the best computer science departments? What could that mean for their futures, or the future of their communities?

Thats the question asked by Oakland-based Hack the Hood, whose mission is to inspire Bay Area kids to pursue careers in technology. Hack the Hood trains young people by hiring them to build websites for small businesses in their communities. After applying for the Google Impact Challenge last spring, Hack the Hood went to work with $500,000 in Google.org funding and nearly 100 Googler volunteers. In the past year theyve expanded their programs in SF, Oakland and Richmond to reach six times as many young people.

Last year we awarded $5 million to help hometown hero organizations like Hack the Hood make a greater impact. Today were announcing the 2015 Challenge, and issuing an open call for nonprofits who are asking big what ifs about how they can improve their communities and put innovative solutions to work in the Bay Area.
Click to find out more about last year's finalists
The Bay Area region has always been defined by the people who live here: people who question the status quo to help move our communities forward. From Harvey Milks fight for LGBT rights to Alice Waters movement for sustainable food to the technological advances of Silicon Valley, the Bay Area has long been at the forefront of positive social change.

We saw this passion in the 1,000+ nonprofit proposals we received for the 2014 Impact Challenge, and we see it in the 25 finalists. We see it in C.E.O., which is training formerly incarcerated people to reenter the workforce; in Lava Maes commitment to bringing showers with dignity to the homeless; and in Mission Asset Funds providing low-income people with zero-interest loans. We see it in our neighbors who are striving for a better Bay Area for all.

As this is our home, and thousands of Googlers live and work here, we want to work together towards an even better Bay Area. The Google Impact Challenge will be accepting proposals from nonprofits through Thursday July 23, 2015 at 11:59 p.m. PDT. To learn more or to nominate a nonprofit visit g.co/bayareachallenge.

Posted by Jacquelline Fuller, Director, Google.org Need some music right now to make whatever youre doing better? Even if youre not already a Google Play Music subscriber, weve got you covered. Google Play Music now has a free, ad-supported version in the U.S., giving you a new way to find just the right musicand giving artists another way to earn revenue. In less time than it takes you to read this sentence, you could be exercising with Drop-a-Beat Workout, cooling off with Poolside Chic, or spending quality time with Songs To Raise Your Kids To.

At any moment in your day, Google Play Music has whatever you need music forfrom working, to working out, to working it on the dance floorand gives you curated radio stations to make whatever youre doing better. Our team of music experts, including the folks who created Songza, crafts each station song by song so you dont have to. If youre looking for something specific, you can browse our curated stations by genre, mood, decade or activity, or you can search for your favorite artist, album or song to instantly create a station of similar music.

We hope youll enjoy it so much that youll consider subscribing to Google Play Music to play without ads, take your music offline, create your own playlists, and listen to any of the 30 million songs in our library on any device and as much as youd like. Youll also get ad-free, offline and background features for music videos on YouTube. And with or without a subscription, you can store and play up to 50,000 songs from your own collection for free. 

To help you get started, check out the top 10 most popular activities on Google Play Music, each of which offers several radio stations to choose from based on what you like:


Brand New Music
Driving
Working Out
Boosting Your Energy
Having Friends Over
Having Fun at Work
Entering Beast Mode
Waking Up Happy
Unwinding
Bedtime


The new free, ad-supported version of Google Play Music is launching first in the U.S. Its available on the web today, and is rolling out this week to Android and iOS. And while youre checking it all out, well be catching up on our Blogged 50.

Posted by Elias Roman, Product Manager Today were launching our first-ever vertical Street View collection, giving you the opportunity to climb 3,000 feet up the worlds most famous rock wall: Yosemites El Capitan. To bring you this new imagery, we partnered with legendary climbers Lynn Hill, Alex Honnold and Tommy Caldwell. Read more about the project from Tommy Caldwell, who completed the worlds hardest climb in Yosemite in January of 2015. -Ed.

That is awesome. I definitely have to be a part of that. 

Maybe it was the sheer exhaustion from being in the middle of a 19-day climb of the Dawn Wall, but when the guys at Google Maps and Yosemite National Park asked if I wanted to help them with their first-ever vertical Street View collection of El Capitan in Yosemite, I didnt hesitate. Yosemite has been such an important part of my life that telling the story of El Capitan through Street View was right up my alleyespecially when it meant working with the Google engineers to figure out some absurd challenges. 


Climbing is all about flirting with the impossible and pushing the boundaries of what you think you can be done. Capturing Street View imagery 3,000 feet up El Capitan proved to be an extension of that, especially when you take a camera meant for the inside of a restaurant and mount it thousands of feet up the worlds most iconic rock wall.



Brett Lowell and Corey Rich capturing Street View of Alex Honnold on the King Swing

Doing anything thousands of feet high on a sheer granite face is complicated, but everyone up there had spent years of their lives on a rope and knew exactly what they were doing. After some testing, we used our tried-and-true climbing gear like cams and ropes to make sure the camera wouldnt fall to the ground in the middle of our Street View collection.  

Once we figured out how to keep the camera on El Cap, we created two sets of vertical Street View. First, we collected Street View of legendary Yosemite climbersand my good friendsLynn Hill and Alex Honnold in iconic spots up the sheer vertical face.



Lynn Hill, Alex Honnold and Tommy Caldwell camp out 1,140 feet up El Capitan

Lynn Hills ascent of El Capitan changed the paradigm of climbing, and she had an extraordinary effect on my climbing career. Ill never forget when she became the first person, man or woman, to free-climb (using only her hands and feet) The Nose back in 1993. Now, you can see her navigate these epic moves like climbing sideways on tiny holds of the Jardine Traverse, inventing a Houdini maneuver on the  Changing Corners and traversing under the Great Roof.



Lynns epic ascent up El Cap is now in Street View

Any story of El Capitan had to include my good friend Alex Honnold. He holds the speed record for climbing the Nose at 2 hours and 23 minutes - most people take 3-5 days. His unwavering confidence in himself is contagious; when Im with him, I feel like the mountain has shrunk to half its size. As you make your way around Yosemite in Street View, youll see Alex doing what he does best: chimneying up the Texas Flake, racing up the bolt ladder, or getting dinner ready in the solar-powered van he calls home.  



Just a normal day on on the Texas Flake for Alex Honnold

Youll also see a glimpse of yours truly on the Dawn Wall. I spent some of my rest days during my January climb of the Dawn Wall testing out the Street View technology the Google team had sent me that month. El Cap is an intimidating environment for experimentation, but years of setting ropes proved pretty helpful in figuring out how to get the equipment rigged and ready to collect Street View.



Tommy Caldwell climbing the sheer face of the Dawn Wall

Then, we really put Alex to work to collect the second set of Street View: the entire vertical route of The Nose on El Capitan. One of the few people that could do this efficiently and quickly, Alex took the camera and pretty much ran 3,000 feet up with photographer partner Brett Lowell. Now, anyone can get the beta (climbing speak for insider advice) before they climb the entire route. 



Alex Honnold and Brett Lowell climbed 3,000 feet to get the entire route in Google Maps

Lynn, Alex and I also helped create a new Yosemite Treks page, where you can take a tour up El Cap and learn more about climbing, from what a hand jam is to why we wear such tiny shoes. And as a father, Im excited kids will learn more about Yosemite when Google brings students to the park through NatureBridge later this year as a part of this project. Plus, its pretty awesome that students who cant make it to Yosemite yet will be able to go on a virtual reality field trip to the Park with Google Expeditions.



Hear the legendary Lynn Hill explain describe the gear she uses as she starts up El Cap

Yosemites driven so much of my life that Im excited to be able to share it with the world through my eyes. These 360-degree panoramic images are the closest thing Ive ever witnessed to actually being thousands of feet up a vertical rock facebetter than any video or photo. But my hope is that this new imagery will inspire you to get out there and see Yosemite for yourself whether you travel up a rock wall or just down the trail.



Tommy Caldwell, Lynn Hill, and Alex Honnold hanging out in Yosemite

Posted by Tommy Caldwell Every time you check your Gmail, search on Google for a nearby restaurant, or watch a YouTube video, a server whirs to life in one of our data centers. Data centers are the engines of the Internet, bringing the power of the web to millions of people around the world. And as millions more people come online, our data centers are growing, too.

Weve recently expanded our data centers in Iowa, Georgia, Singapore and Belgium. And today were announcing a new data center in Alabamaour 14th site globally.

This time, were doing something weve never done before: well be building on the grounds of the Widows Creek coal power plant in Jackson County, which has been scheduled for shutdown. Data centers need a lot of infrastructure to run 24/7, and theres a lot of potential in redeveloping large industrial sites like former coal power plants. Decades of investment shouldnt go to waste just because a site has closed; we can repurpose existing electric and other infrastructure to make sure our data centers are reliably serving our users around the world.


At Widows Creek, we can use the plants many electric transmission lines to bring in lots of renewable energy to power our new data center. Thanks to an arrangement with Tennessee Valley Authority, our electric utility, well be able to scout new renewable energy projects and work with TVA to bring the power onto their electrical grid. Ultimately, this contributes to our goal of being powered by 100% renewable energy.

In 2010, we were one of the first companies outside of the utility industry to buy large amounts of renewable energy. Since then, weve become the largest corporate renewable energy purchaser in the world (in fact weve bought the equivalent of over 1.5 percent of the installed wind power capacity in the U.S.). We're glad to see this trend is catching on among other companies.

Of course, the cleanest energy is the energy you dont use. Our Alabama data center will incorporate our state-of-the-art energy efficiency technologies. Weve built our own super-efficient servers, invented more efficient ways to cool our data centers, and even used advanced machine learning to squeeze more out of every watt of power we consume. Compared to five years ago, we now get 3.5 times the computing power out of the same amount of energy.

Since the 1960s, Widows Creek has generated power for the regionnow the site will be used to power Internet services and bring information to people around the world. We expect to begin construction early next year and look forward to bringing a Google data center to Alabama.

Posted by Patrick Gammons, Senior Manager, Data Center Energy and Location Strategy From eagerly-awaited U.S. Supreme Court rulings, to the ongoing debate over the Confederate flag, heres a look at some of the topics that got people searching this week.

#LoveWins
Whether the query was marriage equality, fourteenth amendment, or love wins, searches related to todays U.S. Supreme Court ruling that same-sex couples nationwide have a right to marry are spiking, with more than 2 million searches for the term gay marriage alone. Interest goes beyond the U.S., with What countries allow same-sex marriage? and where is gay marriage legal? among the top questions.




While todays thunderbolt ruling is capturing most of the attention around SCOTUS, searches for the court have in fact been big all week. Yesterday, news that the Court had upheld a key portion of the Affordable Care Act was met with a 200,000+ search spike, and renewed questions like How does Obamacare work? and Why do Republicans dislike Obamacare? 

Confederate flag
We noted last week that searches related to the Confederate flag increased sharply following the tragic shooting in Charleston, S.C.; and this week, interest in the flag reached an all-time high. Searches were most concentrated in South Carolina, where Governor Nikki Haley has called for the flags removal from the state Capitol, followed by Alabama, where Governor Robert Bentley ordered the flags removal from the Capitol grounds. But searches have been popular throughout the South as people ask questions like Is the confederate flag racist and How many states fly the Confederate flag? As companies pulled Confederate flag merchandise from their sites and stores, the search terms confederate for sale spiked more than 1,000 percent.




Rising stars
Thursdays 2015 N.B.A. Draft also attracted more than 2 million searches this week and half of the top 20 searches yesterday, with queries for first pick Karl-Anthony Towns spiking more than 1,000 percent. Looks like Minnesota Timberwolves fans had done their research ahead of the selection; Towns was the most-searched prospect in the state ahead of the draft. Other breakout names of the week included actor Tom Holland, who saw 500,000+ searches after he was cast as Spider-Man for the next film in the Marvel franchise. Hollands home country of the U.K. topped the list of countries looking for details, but Spidey searches from people in the Philippines to the Netherlands show the global popularity of this character, even two years before the movies 2017 release.  

Posted by Abbi Tatton, who searched this week for [how do you pronounce Obergefell]  When Google Earth was first introduced 10 years ago, it immediately stole my heart. Beyond the freedom to fly anywhere in the world, I was captivated by the ability to paint and visualize geographic data on this incredible global canvas.

Drawn to datasets backed by real human stories, I started making my own maps with KML a few weeks after Earths release in 2005. For my masters degree, I used Google Earth to build a virtual representation of a high-tech biological research reserve. Vint Cerf saw my work, which eventually led to a job on the Google Earth Outreach team, turning my passion for telling stories with maps into a career.

2005 was the beginning of Google Earths evolution, as well. In August of that year, Hurricane Katrina showed us how useful mapping tools like Earth could be for crisis response efforts. Rescue workers compared before and after Satellite imagery in Google Earth to better locate where people were stranded. And in the years after, with more than 2 billion downloads by people in nearly every country in the world, Earth has enabled people to discover new coral reefs, journey to the Moon and into deep space, find long-lost  parents, clear landmines and much more.



Google Earth images of Gulfport, Mississippi's shoreline before and after Hurricane Katrina

The ability to empower groups as diverse as school children and NASA scientists to learn more about the world is what I love about Google Earth. It has the potential to make the planet a far more connected place, if you take the time to explore, discover and share what you learn. So to celebrate how far Google Earth has come and our leap into the next 10 years, weve created a few new ways to help you better see places from around (and above) the world.

Voyager
The world is a big place, and it can be hard to know where to begin your virtual journey. Now you can jump straight to the newest and most interesting imagery around the globe with a new layer, Voyager, available in desktop versions of Google Earth.



Different imagery types in Voyager are shown by color

In this first edition of Voyager, youll find five sections to explore:

Street View: highlights from Street View, including the Taj Mahal and the Grand Canyon
Earth View: striking landscapes around the globe as seen from space (more below)
3D cities: a showcase of cities and towns available in photorealistic 3D (dont forget to tilt!)
Satellite imagery updates: a map of our most recently published satellite imagery
Highlight tour: with thousands of Voyager locations to choose from, take a quick tour of a few to whet your appetite




The Kemgon Gompaavailable in the Street View layeris a Buddhist monastery in Lukla, Nepal

Earth View
Looking at our planet from above is not only a reminder of how interdependent our human and natural ecosystems areit also lays bare the Earths staggering and often surreal beauty.



The Hammar Marshes of Iran are an uncharacteristic yet beautiful wetland feature in the otherwise arid climate

Earth View is library of some of the most striking and enigmatic landscapes available in Google Earth. It started as a 20 percent project last year by a few Googlers who enjoyed scouring satellite imagery for these gems. These images soon made their way onto Android phones, Chromecast and Chromebooks as a distinctive kind of wallpaper.



Islands surrounding Cuba seen in the Earth View Chrome Extension

For Earth's 10th birthday, we're expanding the Earth View collection to 1,500 landscapes from every continent and ocean and making it accessible to even more people. The new imagery is available with an updated version of our Chrome extension and a new web gallery. Download high-resolution wallpapers for your mobile and desktop devices, or better yet, print them up for your walls!



The coastline near Ningaloo, Australia in the new Earth View web gallery

Thank you for the last 10 years exploring your world with Google Earth. We hope Voyager and Earth View will unlock a new perspective on our planet. We look forward to seeing what the next decade brings! 

Posted by Sean Askay, Engineering Manager, Google Earth This week people had the goal of searching for info on the U.S. victory in the Womens World Cup, as well as a hat trick of technical difficulties at three major organizations. Lets kick off the trending topics on Google this week:

Victory for the U.S. women
The U.S. Womens National team claimed a 5-2 victory over Japan in the final of the World Cup this week, and took home a slew of searches along with their trophy. In fact, U.S. search interest in the final match surpassed interest in Game 6 of this years NBA Finals! Keeper Hope Solo and forward Alex Morgan topped the trends charts on Sunday with more than 1 million and 500,000+ searches, respectively. But people were also interested in midfielder Carli Lloyd, who scored a hat trick in the final, including one goal from midfield that sent searches for carli lloyd goal spiking more than 1,000 percent. The team was honored with a ticker-tape parade in New York City today. 

Ground to a halt
Wednesday, a slew of technical issues caused trouble across the U.S., starting with United Airlines. A network outage grounded planes for more than an hour, affecting almost 5,000 flights, and frustrated travelers turned to Google to learn more, making the airline the top searched term on Wednesday with more than 1 million searches. Meanwhile, trading was suspended for hours at the New York Stock Exchange after a software glitch. Top questions during the outage included How many times has the NYSE closed? and When was the last time the NYSE suspended trading? Completing the triumvirate of tech troubles, the Wall Street Journals website crashed this week as well. The (sort of?) good news is that the three incidents seem to be unrelated to each otheror to hackers.
From plane delays to train delays: In the U.K. Thursday, a strike by London Underground workers caused the first complete shutdown of the Tube in over a decade. As Londoners trudged home or crowded into buses, searchers asked How much do tube drivers earn? The strike was over a failed agreement about pay and a new night Tube service scheduled to start running in September.

Comic-Con
The annual Comic-Con International started yesterday, bringing comic, superhero and sci-fi fans together in San Diego, Calif. for a long weekend of panels, events and other celebrations of all things (proud) nerd. The top Comic-Con topics this week include Doctor Who and the new Black Ops III: Zombies video game, but there are movie trailers and TV show previews to appeal to even the least geeky among us. A new clip from the final installment in the Hunger Games movie franchise drew 50,000+ searches, while the new trailer for the live-action Goosebumps movie coming next year has already garnered more than 6 million views on YouTube. 
Posted by Emily Wood, Managing Editor, who searched for [flights from sf to rome] Today is the start of Camp Googlean online summer camp built to spark and satisfy kids curiosities, with four weeks of live adventures for students ages 7-10. This post comes to us from Sylvia Earle, marine biologist and Explorer-in-Residence at National Geographic and the host of the first week of Camp Google. Tune in to Sylvias live event at 12 p.m. PT today. -Ed.

The ocean first got my attention during a family visit to a New Jersey beach when I was three years olda wave knocked me over! At age 12, a move to the Florida coast made the ocean my backyard, and I loved the abundance of life thereevery day I encountered new creatures like starfish, sponges, horseshoe crabs, seaweed, and a wondrous array of small fish that Id never seen before. I knew from then on that when I grew up I would be a scientist so I could keep exploring, no matter what.

Now I get to share my love for the ocean with a new generation of adventurers as part of Camp Google, a new online camp for curious kids, starting. During each of the four weeks of Camp Google, kids 7-10 can explore different subjects by joining live adventuresfrom the depths of the Atlantic to the top of one of the worlds most active volcanoesand doing fun science projects. Today at 12 p.m. PT, National Geographic diver Erika Bergman and I will take kids on the first adventurea live dive in the Atlantic Ocean. Well head to the northernmost part of Florida Reef Tract, the most extensive living coral reef system in North America. Whether it be the Hammerhead Reef or shipwrecks like the Jay Scutti, it will be exciting to see what well find down there!

After the dive, kids can get hands-on with a range of activities to help them understand the science behind what theyve seen underwater. The activities are designed by the Google engineers who map the oceans with Google Earth, and can be done with simple household supplies. For example, well learn about buoyancy and how things float in the ocean in an experiment with eggs, water and salt, and well explore how dolphins use sounds to see underwater by building a sonar system. As kids complete these projects, theyll earn camp badges to celebrate the new skills they learned, like conquering echolocation (not bad for summer vacation!). The activities are designed for kids to do on their own, in groups with their friends, or with their families. 

Following Ocean Week, kids can jump into Space Week with a NASA astronaut and VSauce where they will help cook up space food and learn how astronauts eat in space. After that, theyll head to Hawai?i Volcanoes National Park with a National Park Ranger and Derek Muller to learn more about how volcanoes form. And camp ends in style with Music Week, where kids can jam alongside Zendaya to learn about why music makes us want to bust a move. We hosts can't wait to explore with you this summer, wherever you might be!


The ocean is vast and a lot of it is unexploredevery time I dive into the ocean theres the possibility of finding something new. Im excited to share this spirit of discovery with kids everywhere this summer. I hope through our dive and the rest of Camp Google, we can inspire kids to continue asking questions... and get out there to find answers. 

Update July 15: We heard that some of you weren't able to see the live streamsorry about the rocky waters. But you can now catch the video at http://goo.gl/7pJJUv. After you've heard from Sylvia and Erika, you can learn a bit more about buoyancy and try to make things float yourself!

Posted by Sylvia Earle, your first host of Camp Google

(Cross-posted on the Google for Education Blog) Its Friday, which means its time for a good, old-fashioned Search trends round up. Read on to see what the world wanted to know this week.

To Pluto and Beyond
It may have lost its planetary title, but Pluto officially became the most distant solid object to be visited by spacecraft as NASAs New Horizons successfully completed its flyby this week. The mission to explore the dwarf giant took a mere nine years and 3 billion miles of space travel and has already returned some truly incredible high-resolution images of Pluto and its moons, including the most epic vacation Instagram of all time. Searches for news about the mission topped 5 million, plus another 100,000+ searches for photos.



Oh baby
In other historic and out of this world news, Louis Tomlinson is the first member of One Direction to announce hes going to be a dad. While this was likely upsetting news for many 1D fans, it didnt stop the searches--Louis racked up more than 500,000 of them this week. And, weve all got Jimmy Fallon to thank for this weeks most disgusting search trend, a truly horrifying finger injury called ring avulsion. Fallon, who was sporting a bandaged hand from behind "The Tonight Show" desk, explained that he had surgery following a freak accident involving a kitchen counter and his wedding ring. Searchers took to Google to find out more and with search interest in images of ring avulsion up 50x over the last week, were willing to bet at least a few of them probably wish they hadnt.  

Awards season...again
Nominations for the 2015 Emmy Awards were announced this week, inspiring more than 200,000 searches. Gone but definitely not forgotten "Parks and Recreation" was the most searched Emmy nominee for a comedy series, though Amy Schumer (whose new movie "Trainwreck" opens today) edged out Amy Poehler as the most searched lead actress in a comedy. In a potential preview of the 2016 Emmy Awards, Rachel McAdams, who co-stars in the new season of HBOs "True Detective," was searched more than 50,000 times this week.



It was a good week all around, and to play us out, we recommend Wilcos new album, Star Wars. The surprise, free-to-download release this week resulted in more than 50,000 searches--and a lot of excited Tweedy fans.

Posted by Megan Slack, who searched this week for [ring avulsion]. You may have been there before...open your voicemail transcriptions in Google Voice to find that at times they arent completely intelligible. Or, they are humorously intelligible. Either way, they might not have been the message the caller meant to leave you.

So, we asked users if they would kindly share some of their voicemails for research and system improvements. Thanks to those who participated, we are happy to announce an improved voicemail system in Google Voice and Project Fi that delivers more accurate transcriptions. Using a (deep breath) long short-term memory deep recurrent neural network (whew!), we cut our transcription errors by 49%.

To start receiving improved voicemail transcriptions, you don't need to do a thing -- just continue to use Google Voice as you have been. For those not using Google Voice but want to give it a try, sign up for a Google Voice (or Google Voice Lite) account here, its quick and easy to get started.

Many thanks to the Google Voice users who shared their voicemails, they really helped us make the product better. While this is a big improvement, it is just the beginning and with your input, we will continue improving voicemail transcriptions over time. We hope you enjoy it and look forward to hearing what you linker, think!

Posted by Zander Danko, Software Engineer "Let me win. But if I cannot win, let me be brave in the attempt." -Special Olympics Athlete Oath

Standing in Soldier Field in Chicago, 47 years ago, Eunice Shriver kicked off the first Special Olympics in history--1,000 people with intellectual disabilities from the U.S. and Canada competed in track & field, swimming and diving. Even though it was a small inaugural event, its historical impact--giving a platform to the civil rights struggles of people with disabilities that were so often overlooked-- was massive. The Games were meant to give children with cognitive disabilities, in Eunices words,  the chance to play, the chance to compete and the chance to grow. 

Ambitious, inclusive thinking like Eunices is contagious, and has inspired us to support this years Special Olympics World Games as part of the Google Impact Challenge: Disabilities. Launched in May, this effort is focused on supporting the development of assistive technologies for people with disabilities around the world with $20 million in Google.org grants. This weekend, to mark the Games as well as the 25th anniversary of the Americans with Disabilities Act, landmark legislation that advanced the civil rights of people with disabilities when it was signed into law in 1990, were honoring the community in the following ways:



Google Doodle. Weve created a homepage Doodle that shows a track inspired by the Special Olympics World Games "circle of inclusion, featuring athletes of all backgrounds. In the spirit of getting moving, since we've heard from users that they love seeing doodles on the go, we're now starting to make them easier to see and share on our mobile search results in addition to desktop and the Google app.


Special Olympics World Games. Over the next nine days, the Special Olympics World Games will draw more than half a million spectators to cheer on 7,000 athletes from 177 countries in events from judo to powerlifting to kayaking and more. Were powering the World Games social media nerve center, contributing as a financial supporter and are packing more than 300 Googlers into the stands.


Cheer an athlete. If youre in Los Angeles, come visit us from July 25 until August 2 at the World Games Festival Space at USCs Alumni Park to support the athletes. For those who cant make it in person, you can visit g.co/WorldGames2015 to send a cheer to the athletes. Every day during the competition, well decorate the dorm walls of the athletes with your cheers to encourage them to be brave in the attempt.



Portraits, like these at the National Portrait Gallery featuring leaders Judy Heumann and Ed Roberts, who have campaigned tirelessly for the rights of people with disabilities and Tatyana McFadden, who inspires athletes today, will decorate Washington, D.C. this weekend. See the photo gallery
Painting the town.  In Washington D.C. and Los Angeles, were marking the 25th anniversary of the Americans with Disabilities Act. From men and women like Judy Heumann and Ed Roberts, who campaigned tirelessly for the rights of people with disabilities, to President George H.W. Bush, who signed the ADA into law in 1990, were telling the stories of 10 great leaders who have fought -- and continue to fight -- for equal rights of people living with disabilities. Weve installed massive portraits on the stairs of historic landmarks around the nations capital and in L.A.s Grand Park.




Audio description available here
Telling stories.Were featuring the little-known history of a number of unsung heroes of the ADA movement at g.co/ADA. While people with disabilities benefit from their hard-won battles with every curb cut street corner and closed-caption film, their names are not widely known. Wed like to change that.

Posted by Jacquelline Fuller, Director Google.org Anyone up for a look back at the last week on Google Search? We are! Read on to find out what the world was looking for this week. 

Bad Blood
Phew, where to start with this one. Taylor Swift and Nicki Minaj had a spat over VMA nominations (Taylor was nominated for Video of the Year; Nicki was not), worked through it and made up -- all on Twitter. It was a good lesson in the art of the subtweet, as well as the sincere apology after responding to a subtweet that wasnt directly about you tweet. Searches about the incident topped 500,000.

But Minaj v. Swift wasnt the only music-related drama to make the list of Trending Searches. Meek Mill, hip hop artist and Nicki Minajs significant other, started a Twitter rant of his own, alleging that rapper Drake doesnt write his own material and inspiring more than a million searches. The two artists havent settled up yet, so stay tuned for more on that front.

Last but not least, country stars Blake Shelton and Miranda Lambert are calling it quits after four years of marriage and guess what  they both had stuff to say about it on Twitter. More than 1 million searchers took to Google to find out more.

But wait, theres more
It was the week of the sequel. (The weequel?) James Bond is back -- the trailer for the upcoming Spectre was released this week, which got more than 100,000 people searching for the movie. And nearly as surprising as the idea of a shark-filled tornado itself, the Sharknado is back. Sharknado 3 -- featuring 90s all-stars Tara Reid and Ian Ziering -- aired on Wednesday night and pulled in a cool 500,000 searches.

 





 Speaking of all-stars (and also of the 90s) remember the days when an NBA superstar could star in a wide-release film with his Looney Tunes pals? Well, its happening again. This time, its not Michael Jordan, but Lebron James who inked a deal with Warner Bros. The company announced the partnership on Wednesday, leading to 200,000 searches. Reports suggest that while Michael Jordan will be replaced, Bugs Bunny will play himself, though there has been speculation about a case of cartoon patellar tendonitis hes been coping with quietly for years.

Posted by Megan Slack, who searched this week for [public pools in San Francisco]. In less than five months, policymakers from around the world will gather in Paris to finalize a new global agreement on combating climate change. Already, many governments are putting forth ambitious emissions reduction goals. And companies are taking action, too, by reducing their own footprints and investing in clean energy.


Reaching a strong deal in Paris is an absolute and urgent necessity. The data is clear and the science is beyond dispute: a warming planet poses enormous threats to society. 

Public health experts recently warned that climate change threatens to undermine the last half century of gains in development and global health, through forces like extreme weather, drought, malnutrition, and disease. The U.S. government has asserted that climate change poses immediate risks to U.S. national security, as increased natural disasters and humanitarian crises fuel instability and violence. And many studies have revealed that critical infrastructure, like electricity and water, is vulnerable to rising sea levels and intensifying storms.


Climate change is one of the most significant global challenges of our time. Rising to that challenge involves a complex mix of policy, technology, and international cooperation. This wont be easy, but Google is committed to doing its part.

Google has been carbon neutral since 2007. Our data centers, the physical infrastructure behind web services used by billions of people, now get 3.5 times the computing power out of the same amount of electricity, as compared to five years ago. We are also the biggest corporate purchaser of renewable power on the planet. Just today at the White House, we pledged to triple those purchases over the next decade. In addition, we're a major climate-minded investor, so far committing more than $2 billion to clean energy projects, from Americas largest wind farm to Africas largest solar power plant. 


We're serious about environmental sustainability not because its trendy, but because its core to our values and also makes good business sense. After all, the cheapest energy is the energy you dont use in the first place. And in many places clean power is cost-competitive with conventional power.

Were making progress, but averting catastrophic climate change will require significant investment and bold innovations. Google and our private-sector peers are ready to lead. But something fundamental is required: clear policy. The global business community needs certainty to bring climate solutions to scale. We need the worlds political leaders to confirm that investments in clean energy are sound, and that the laws and policies meant to enable such investment will be designed for the long term and rooted in what science tells us needs to be done.

Its encouraging to see the worlds major economies set ambitious climate targets, but its time to get a strong international climate agreement on the books. This December in Paris, its imperative that policymakers reach a deal that moves us toward a zero-carbon economy. Thats the kind of future that were committed to helping build, and that future generations deserve. 

Posted by Eric Schmidt, Executive Chairman
 When we launched Google+, we set out to help people discover, share and connect across Google like they do in real life. While we got certain things right, we made a few choices that, in hindsight, weve needed to rethink. So over the next few months, were going to be making some important changes. Heres more about what you can expect:

A more focused Google+ experience
Google+ is quickly becoming a place where people engage around their shared interests, with the content and people who inspire them. In line with that focus, were continuing to add new features like Google+ Collections, where you can share and enjoy posts organized by the topics you care about. At the same time, well also move some features that arent essential to an interest-based social experience out of Google+.  For example, many elements of Google+ Photos have been moved into the new Google Photos app, and were well underway putting location sharing into Hangouts and other apps, where it really belongs. We think changes like these will lead to a more focused, more useful, more engaging Google+.

Using Google without a Google+ profile
People have told us that accessing all of their Google stuff with one account makes life a whole lot easier. But weve also heard that it doesnt make sense for your Google+ profile to be your identity in all the other Google products you use.

So in the coming months, a Google Account will be all youll need to share content, communicate with contacts, create a YouTube channel and more, all across Google. YouTube will be one of the first products to make this change, and you can learn more on their blog. As always, your underlying Google Account wont be searchable or followable, unlike public Google+ profiles. And for people who already created Google+ profiles but dont plan to use Google+ itself, well offer better options for managing and removing those public profiles.

Youll see these changes roll out in stages over several months.  While they wont happen overnight, theyre right for Googles usersboth the people who are on Google+ every single day, and the people who arent.

Posted by Bradley Horowitz, VP of Streams, Photos, and Sharing   The Google Translate app already lets you instantly visually translate printed text in seven languages. Just open the app, click on the camera, and point it at the text you need to translatea street sign, ingredient list, instruction manual, dials on a washing machine. You'll see the text transform live on your screen into the other language. No Internet connection or cell phone data needed. 

Today, were updating the Google Translate app againexpanding instant visual translation to 20 more languages (for a total of 27!), and making real-time voice translations a lot faster and smootherso even more people can experience the world in their language.
Instantly translate printed text in 27 languages

We started out with seven languagesEnglish, French, German, Italian, Portuguese, Russian and Spanishand today we're adding 20 more. You can now translate to and from English and Bulgarian, Catalan, Croatian, Czech, Danish, Dutch, Filipino, Finnish, Hungarian, Indonesian, Lithuanian, Norwegian, Polish, Romanian, Slovak, Swedish, Turkish and Ukrainian. You can also do one-way translations from English to Hindi and Thai. (Or, try snapping a pic of the text youd like translatedwe have a total of 37 languages in camera mode.)

To try out the new languages, go to the Google Translate app, set English along with the language youd like to translate, and click the camera button; you'll be prompted to download a small (~2 MB) language pack for each.  

Ready to see all of these languages in action?


And how exactly did we get so many new languages running on a device with no data connection? Its all about convolutional neural networks (whew)geek out on that over on our Research blog.

Have a natural, smoother conversationeven with a slower mobile network
In many emerging markets, slow mobile networks can make it challenging to access many online tools - so if you live in an area with unreliable mobile networks, our other update today is for you. In addition to instant visual translation, weve also improved our voice conversation mode (enabling real-time translation of conversations across 32 languages), so its even faster and more natural on slow networks.

These updates are coming to both Android and iOS, rolling out over the next few days.

 Translate Community helps us get better every day
On top of todays updates, were also continuously working to improve the quality of the translations themselves and to add new languages. A year ago this week, we launched Translate Community, a place for multilingual people from anywhere in the world to provide and correct translations. Thanks to the millions of language lovers who have already pitched inmore than 100 million words so far!we've been updating our translations for over 90 language pairs, and plan to update many more as our community grows.

Weve still got lots of work to do: more than half of the content on the Internet is in English, but only around 20% of the worlds population speaks English. Todays updates knock down a few more language barriers, helping you communicate better and get the information you need.

Posted by Barak Turovsky, Product Lead, Google Translate
 Has it been a week or what? It most definitely has, which means its time to kick back, relax and read on as we dig into Googles trending searches list to find out what the world wanted to learn more about this week. 

The Grand Old Party
With 10 candidates on stage for the prime-time event, Thursday nights Republican presidential debate debate did seem quite a bit like a party. An estimated 24 million people tuned in to watch the broadcast on the Fox News Channel (a record for the network, and cable TV, it turns out), and searches for Republican debate topped 5 million. 


Not surprisingly, the candidates themselves generated some serious search action. Donald Trump claimed the most searched position in the days before and hours after the event, and held on to the spot for nearly all of the debate itself, save a few appearances from Ben Carson, Carly Fiorina and Lindsey Graham.



See a full-size version of this incredible data viz here. You can also explore the most searched issues during the debate as well -- education, taxes and abortion all took turns in the top spot.

Jon-Voyage
All good things come to an end, and this week the world said goodbye to Jon Stewart -- at least as host of The Daily Show. Airing just moments after a debate that was ripe for Stewarts particular brand of editorializing, Thursday nights show was his last. Searches for the (now former) host topped 500,000 this week.  



Check out another cool data viz -- this one on search interest in Jon Stewart across the United States -- right here.

The Doctor is in
Artist turned producer turned mogul Dr. Dre gave us all a gift this week -- his first new album in 16 years. Compton -- which Dre is calling his grand finale -- is self-reflective and grand in all the best ways, and dripping with appearances and collaborations from generations of other artists. It also brought in an impressive 200,000 searches. 

Makeups and breakups
Continuing what seems like a very common theme this summer, the weeks trending searches had no shortage of celebrity couple gossip. Jennifer Aniston, who pulled off a surprise backyard wedding to Justin Theroux, made the list with 200,000+ searches.  The world panicked (and searched 100,000+ times) following news that Will Smith and Jada Pinkett Smith were divorcing -- news that turned out not to be true at all, according to the couple. Reba McEntire, however, is definitely separating from her husband (100,000+ searches for that news), as are Gwen Stefani and Gavin Rossdale (200,000+ searches) -- and theres no doubt about that one, either.

Posted by Megan Slack, who searched this week for [japanese candy delivery] The best conversations just flow: you barely have to think about what to say. With Hangouts, we want to help you stay in the moment, no matter what device youre using or how youre getting your voice across, from texting to talking to video. So weve been hard at work on big improvements to make Hangouts faster, simpler, and easier on the eyes. 

Today, were releasing Google Hangouts 4.0 for Android, with a fresh new look, improved speed, and features that make it even easier to reach people the way you want to reach them.




New ways to compose, attach and use your watch make Hangouts simpler than ever

Here's whats new:


Hangouts is sleeker. Now updated with material design, Hangouts has a new look and feel: items respond to your touch in more intuitive ways and transitions between tasks are more fluid.
Hangouts is simpler. The new Compose button makes it easier for you to start a new group or conversation. Our streamlined contacts list helps you find the right person quickly. And attachments have been revamped and simplified, so sharingof emoji, GIFs, your location, even multiple photos at onceis a snap.
Hangouts is faster. Whether youre sending a quick message or video chatting with family, you dont want hold-ups. Weve been obsessively fixing bugs and speeding up message delivery to make Hangouts faster and more reliable. Bonus: less battery consumption.


And more
Make affordable calls from the Hangouts Dialer, now with Outbound Caller ID (so your friends wont get any more calls from the great Unknown). Receive and reply to group MMS messages in Hangouts using Google Voice. Use Hangouts on Android Wear when you really have an eye on the time (just say, Ok Google, send a Hangouts message, into your watch). And if youre not around but want friends to know whats on your mind? Custom status messages are back. 

The new Hangouts starts rolling out to Android users today and will be available in the Play Store (iOS users recently got many of the same updates). We hope you enjoy the new look and feel. And we look forward to keeping the conversation flowing!

Posted by Amit Fulay, Product Manager, Communications
 As Sergey and I wrote in the original founders letter 11 years ago, Google is not a conventional company. We do not intend to become one.  As part of that, we also said that you could expect us to make smaller bets in areas that might seem very speculative or even strange when compared to our current businesses. From the start, weve always strived to do more, and to do important and meaningful things with the resources we have. 

We did a lot of things that seemed crazy at the time. Many of those crazy things now have over a billion users, like Google Maps, YouTube, Chrome, and Android. And we havent stopped there.  We are still trying to do things other people think are crazy but we are super excited about.

Weve long believed that over time companies tend to get comfortable doing the same thing, just making incremental changes. But in the technology industry, where revolutionary ideas drive the next big growth areas, you need to be a bit uncomfortable to stay relevant.

Our company is operating well today, but we think we can make it cleaner and more accountable. So we are creating a new company, called Alphabet (http://abc.xyz).  I am really excited to be running Alphabet as CEO with help from my capable partner, Sergey, as President.

What is Alphabet?  Alphabet is mostly a collection of companies.  The largest of which, of course, is Google.   This newer Google is a bit slimmed down, with the companies that are pretty far afield of our main Internet products contained in Alphabet instead.  What do we mean by far afield?  Good examples are our health efforts: Life Sciences (that works on the glucose-sensing contact lens), and Calico (focused on longevity).  Fundamentally, we believe this allows us more management scale, as we can run things independently that arent very related. Alphabet is about businesses prospering through strong leaders and independence. In general, our model is to have a strong CEO who runs each business, with Sergey and me in service to them as needed. We will rigorously handle capital allocation and work to make sure each business is executing well.  We'll also make sure we have a great CEO for each business, and well determine their compensation.  In addition, with this new structure we plan to implement segment reporting for our Q4 results, where Google financials will be provided separately than those for the rest of Alphabet businesses as a whole.

This new structure will allow us to keep tremendous focus on the extraordinary opportunities we have inside of Google.  A key part of this is Sundar Pichai. Sundar has been saying the things I would have said (and sometimes better!) for quite some time now, and Ive been tremendously enjoying our work together. He has really stepped up since October of last year, when he took on product and engineering responsibility for our Internet businesses.  Sergey and I have been super excited about his progress and dedication to the company.  And it is clear to us and our board that it is time for Sundar to be CEO of Google.  I feel very fortunate to have someone as talented as he is to run the slightly slimmed down Google and this frees up time for me to continue to scale our aspirations.  I have been spending quite a bit of time with Sundar, helping him and the company in any way I can, and I will of course continue to do that.  Google itself is also making all sorts of new products, and I know Sundar will always be focused on innovation -- continuing to stretch boundaries.  I know he deeply cares that we can continue to make big strides on our core mission to organize the world's information.  Recent launches like Google Photos and Google Now using machine learning are amazing progress.  Google also has some services that are run with their own identity, like YouTube.  Susan is doing a great job as CEO, running a strong brand and driving incredible growth.

Sergey and I are seriously in the business of starting new things.  Alphabet will also include our X lab, which incubates new efforts like Wing, our drone delivery effort. We are also stoked about growing our investment arms, Ventures and Capital, as part of this new structure.

Alphabet Inc. will replace Google Inc. as the publicly-traded entity and all shares of Google will automatically convert into the same number of shares of Alphabet, with all of the same rights.  Google will become a wholly-owned subsidiary of Alphabet.  Our two classes of shares will continue to trade on Nasdaq as GOOGL and GOOG.    

For Sergey and me this is a very exciting new chapter in the life of Google -- the birth of Alphabet. We liked the name Alphabet because it means a collection of letters that represent language, one of humanity's most important innovations, and is the core of how we index with Google search!  We also like that it means alpha-bet (Alpha is investment return above benchmark), which we strive for!  I should add that we are not intending for this to be a big consumer brand with related products--the whole point is that Alphabet companies should have independence and develop their own brands.

We are excited about

Getting more ambitious things done.
Taking the long-term view.
Empowering great entrepreneurs and companies to flourish.
Investing at the scale of the opportunities and resources we see.
Improving the transparency and oversight of what were doing.
Making Google even better through greater focus.
And hopefully...as a result of all this, improving the lives of as many people as we can.

What could be better?  No wonder we are excited to get to work with everyone in the Alphabet family.  Dont worry, were still getting used to the name too!

Posted by Larry Page, CEO Its Friday, which means its time for an A-through-Z of the weeks Google Search trends (see what I did there?)

Per-see  what is it?
As the skies lit up with the Perseid Meteor shower this week, there were more than a million Google searches around the topic from people on the hunt for shooting stars. Along with questions on how to pronounce it (that would be something in the region of percy-id), people were asking where to watch and how to photograph the summer show, with NASA promising up to a hundred meteors an hour if you got up early enough. These meteors streak through the Earths atmosphere for our viewing pleasure every year -- check out the annual spike in Google searches over the last decade for a record of when we spotted them. 




Headlines from China 
Shocking images of destruction continue to come out of Chinas northern port city of Tianjin after a massive chemical explosion Wednesday. This eye-witness video posted on YouTube by Daniel Van Duren -- who says he was watching for shooting stars when the explosions happened -- has more than 60,000 views in 24 hours.  With news outlets reporting that smoke is still rising from the industrial area where the blasts occurred, the million Google searches about Tianjin are focused on the who, what, where, when, why of the disaster.




This was the second time news from China appeared in the worlds Hot Trends this week. Chinas surprise decision to devalue its currency prompted an additional 50,000 searches Tuesday.

Because theres apparently a day for everything
It was an awesome week for left-handed middle children everywhere. Wednesday was National Middle Child Day, where the top rising search on Google was for this meme, which pretty much sums it up. Then Thursday was Left Handers Day, prompting a spike of more than 100,000 Google searches. Looking at the top questions asked on Google around this important day for southpaws, you all wanted to know how many people in general are left-handed, and how many US presidents in particular (hard to confirm, but the White House tweeted that President Obama is one of them). Which brings us, naturally, to the next burning question on peoples minds: Is Donald Trump left-handed?  File that one under August.




Posted by Abbi Tatton, who searched this week for [left-handed kangaroos]. Ugh...not again. You get home at the end of the day, and sit down to stream a new movie or upload vacation photos  and your Wi-Fi slows to a crawl or just stops working. Instead of relaxing in front of the screen or sharing those photos with friends, you spend it unplugging and re-plugging cords, trying to decipher blinking lights, or contemplating a call to customer support. 

While we count on Wi-Fi more than ever to be entertained, productive, and stay connected, were streaming and sharing in new ways our old routers were never built to handle. So today, with our partner TP-LINK, were launching OnHub, a different kind of router for a new way to Wi-Fi. Instead of headaches and spotty connections, OnHub gives you Wi-Fi thats fast, secure, and easy to use. 



Designed for the Home
Many of us keep our router on the floor and out of sight, where it doesnt work as well. We replaced unruly cords and blinking lights with internal antennas and subtle, useful lighting, so youll be happy placing OnHub out in the open, where your router performs its best. 

Starts Fast, Stays Fast
During setup, OnHub searches the airwaves and selects the best channel for the fastest connection. A unique antenna design and smart software keep working in the background, automatically adjusting OnHub to avoid interference and keep your network at peak performance. You can even prioritize a device, so that your most important activity   like streaming your favorite show  gets the fastest speed.




A simple mobile app
OnHub makes it simple to set up and manage your Wi-Fi, all from the Google On app, available on Android or iOS. The Google On app tells you how much bandwidth your devices are using, lets you run a network check, and if theres an issue with your Wi-Fi, the app offers suggestions to help. And, instead of lost passwords and sticky notes, it even reveals your password with a single tap and lets you text or email it to friends. 

Just gets better
OnHub automatically updates with new features and the latest security upgrades, without interrupting your connection. In the future, OnHub can support smart devices that you bring into your home, whether they use Bluetooth Smart Ready, Weave, or 802.15.4. We also plan to design new OnHub devices with other hardware partners in the future. Stay tuned for news from our second partner, ASUS, later this year. 

Starting today, OnHub is available for pre-order for $199.99 from online retailers in the U.S. including the Google Store, Amazon, and Walmart.com. It will be available for sale in retail stores in the U.S. and in Canada in the coming weeks. 

At the end of the day, we want our Wi-Fi to just work, so that we can do all the things we love to do online. Heres to Wi-Fi with the reliability, speed, and security you want at home, without the frustrations you dont. 

Posted by Trond Wuellner, Group Product Manager
 Inspirational women. A surreal theme park. And a third-party candidate we can all get behind. This week had a little of everythingread on for a look at the top topics on Google Search.

Top tabs
Lieutenant Shaye Haver and Lieutenant Kristen Griest are the first women to break a major gender barrier and graduate from the rigorous Army Ranger School this week. The course is known for its tough physical challenges and a high dropout rate, and this was the first year women were admitted. Search interest in Haver and Griest has spiked more than 150X since Tuesday; at todays graduation, they earned their tabsand a place in history.

This Presidential campaign is Nuts
The Republican Presidential candidates continue to draw headlines in the long lead-up to the 2016 election. One of the top topics this week? Immigration, after Donald Trump said in an interview that he would overturn the law that grants citizenship to people born in the U.S.a law better known as the 14th Amendment to the U.S. Constitution. It didnt take long for the other candidates to take a stand one way or the other on the birthright citizenship issue, while searchers turned to the web to learn more about the Amendment and the ongoing debate. In less political political news, Trump also drew ire this week when he said that supermodel Heidi Kluma knockout at 42was no longer a 10. More than 200,000 searchesand a smart comeback from Heidiwerent far behind.

Meanwhile, theres a new presidential candidate on the scene in Iowa. A 15-year-old high school sophomore named Brady Olson made quite the splash after he submitted his candidacy with the Federal Election Commission as Deez Nuts. Not only is he polling at a not-too-shabby 9 percent against Hillary Clinton and Donald Trump in North CarolinaNuts was a trending topic on Twitter and hes surpassed Clinton in search interest, too.


Cheater, beware
The cheating site Ashley Madison was a top trending term this week, after hackers stole user account and payment information and posted the data online. There were more than 1 million searches for [Ashley Madison] on Tuesday, with more than half a million for [Ashley Madison List] as people tried to find out whether someone they knew had a profile. But questions about the hacking were myriad, and sometimes innocent. Many wanted to know who is Ashley Madison? (spoiler: not a real person) while others asked What is the dark web? in an effort to find out more about the anonymous and hidden network where the data was released. 


Be careful what you wish for
A new tourist attraction in the U.K. is already living up to its name. Dismaland, an art exhibit by the elusive Banksy, and "the U.K.'s most disappointing new visitor attraction, features a derelict castle with a dirty moat, gloomy park attendants, and bizarre works by 50+ artists. After being shrouded in secrecy, the bemusement park debuted this week to the tune of 200,000+ searches, and today search interest in Dismaland surpassed that of Disneylands. (One of searchers top questions: What does Disney say about Dismaland?) Unfortunately (or, appropriately, depending on your viewpoint), the park has also had its fair share of troubles already. As its website crashed under the weight of 6 million hits, and hundreds of people lined up outside the resort, many are wondering whether theyre on their way to see a conceptual art work, or already a part of one.

Posted by Emily Wood, Managing Editor, who searched this week for [best restaurants bon appetit] The tradition of ringing in each New Year with resolutions (whether we stick to them or not) is always an opportunity to reflect and start the year ahead on the right foot. As students and teachers around the world return to campuses and classrooms this fall, were embarking on a different kind of fresh start: a New (School) Year. And we want to help you make the most of it. So weve put together a few resolution ideas, plus tips to help you stick to them. Weve also made a resolution of our own: to bring the best of Google technology to education.


The best of Google, for education
Like many resolutions, ours might sound familiarand thats because the Google for Education team has been working on it for a while. Over the last few years, weve spent a lot of time with teachers and students, witnessing firsthand how technology is helping in the classroom and learning about challenges that are yet unsolved. With feedback from schools, weve improved products like Google Apps for Education and Docs, building in new features specifically useful for education. Weve also created new learning experiences like Google Classrooma sort of mission control for teachers and students, offering a single place to keep track of all class materials, eliminating paperwork and making it easy for teachers to collaborate with students, and students to collaborate with each other.

So as part of our resolution this school year, were launching some new features in Google Classroom. Teachers can now easily ask students questions in Classroom, alongside all the other class materials in the stream. Teachers also told us that they want more ways for students to engage with each other, and flex their critical thinking muscles. So now students can comment on each others answers in Classroom and have open-ended discussions. In the next month, we'll also make it possible for teachers to add assignments, due dates and field trips to a shared calendar. 

So whats your resolution?
Were sure youve already set some big goals for the year aheadfrom acing AP Bio to landing that killer internship. Whatever your plans, it can be tough to stick with those goals once assignments and social commitments start to pile up. So weve collected 50+ tips from more than 15 Google products to help you follow through with your resolutions. Here are some ideas:


Resolution 1. Get (and stay) organized
When youre bogged down by clutter, it can be tough to get stuff done. Make this your year to be more organized. Never miss another study group with help from Google Calendar. Use Google Sheets to keep all your classmates' info in one place, and better manage your inbox by emailing everyone at once with a Google group. 

Resolution 2. Get (mentally) fit
Push yourself to take your studies to the next level. Teach yourself how to code with Made with Code. Make the most of language class by saving your most used words and phrases with Google Translate or magically translating webpages with Google Chrome. 

Resolution 3. Get some worldly perspective
Not studying abroad this year? No problem. You can still unleash your inner explorer with Google Maps Treks and visit the Pyramids of Giza or the Great Barrier Reef without leaving your room. Or bring your art history class to life by seeing those masterpieces up close and in perfect detail with Cultural Institute. 

We hope these give you new ideas for how you can make this school year your best yet. Over the next few weeks, well be announcing more tips and other updatesso follow along with #GoogleEdu and on Google+. Well be doing our homework to stick to our resolution, so we can hopefully give you what you need to do the same. Now go hit those books! 

Posted by Miriam Schneider, Google for Education


Over the last few years, weve spent a lot of time with teachers and students, witnessing firsthand how technology is helping in the classroom and learning about challenges that are yet unsolved. 
 Ten years ago, Hurricane Katrina ravaged the Gulf Coast of the United States, flooding cities, displacing thousands of people, and causing billions of dollars worth of damage. It is the costliest natural disaster, and one of the deadliest hurricanes, in U.S. history.

After rescue efforts began in the immediate aftermath of Katrina, some Googlers wondered how they could connect people with useful information and resources related to the storm. With the help of many third-party organizations, small groups of our employees worked to display satellite imagery of affected areas in Google Earth and helped build searchable databases so people could check on the safety of friends and loved ones. These early efforts later became some of the standard actions taken today by the Google Crisis Response Team following natural disasters, from hurricanes to earthquakes to tsunamis.

As the U.S. enters hurricane season again, Katrina remains a stark reminder of the devastation a storm like that can cause. We want to be as prepared and as helpful as possible for the next oneno matter where it hits, or how big it is. So were always working to improve our Crisis Response efforts to help people stay safe and informed during these events. 

With that in mind, we've launched some improvements to weather forecasts and Public Alerts in Google Search to track storms during this year's U.S. hurricane season. Now, when you search the web for information about particular storms or tornadoes, you may see: 


A map showing your location in relation to the oncoming storm
Visualizations of its forecasted track, wind severity and arrival time, courtesy of NOAA
Concise instructions for preparing and staying safe, customized for the estimated intensity of the storm and its arrival time relative to your location, from FEMA and ready.gov


The safety recommendations you receive will be tailored to reflect the current status of the event and your context. For example, if you search for a specific storm when its still several days away, you may see a map of the developing weather event and a recommendation to start preparing an emergency kit. If the storm is only hours away from your location, you might receive a reminder to start charging your phone in case power goes out. And if you search when the storm is nearby, you'll get the most urgent information, like how to avoid injury from fast-moving water or flying debris.




 Tropical storm alert with precise location, wind details and customized safety checklist. Improved tropical storm alerts like this will appear in Search on mobile and desktop. 

Not every storm is as devastating as Katrina was, but they all have the potential to cause damage, disrupt lives, and uproot communities. By providing useful, accurate, early-warning information, we want to do our part to help people prepare. More information wont stop natural disasters from occurring, but it can go a long way to keeping people safe, and in some cases, could even save lives.

Posted by Pete Giencke, GIS Data Engineer