Wolf eye. (Brown)(My)










Wolf eye. (White)(My)




Hair
Amazing...




Teddies (My)










Teddy (My)




11-Year-Old 4'5" Prodigy Julian Newman Stars for Downey Christian Varsity Team in Florida -- Viral Video


At only four foot five inches tall and 70 pounds, Julian Newman, 11, has taken the basketball world by storm and he still can't even drive.
Still only in in 5th grade, Newman has become a viral sensation with video of him taking on players twice his size racking up more than two million views on YouTube.






.....

9 Putts Into One Hole - CU PGM -- Viral Video: Amazing nine ball golf putt trick shot

Watch the remarkable moment when nine golfers in Campbell University's PGA Golf Management programme all sink their simultaneous putts in the same hole.


..............


Chuks Aneke Vs Michael Uwezu Reserves Fulham v Arsenal Dec09




Chuks Aneke Vs Michael Uwezu Reserves Fulham v... by 2drama


France Stops Young Eagles In Brazil 
https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.bfc.android

The pig's fate
There was a farmer who collected horses;
he only needed one more breed
to complete his collection.
One day, he found out that his neighbor
had the particular horse breed he needed.
So, he constantly bothered
his neighbor until he sold it to him.
A month later, the horse became
ill and he called the veterinarian, who said:
- Well, your horse has a virus.
He must take this medicine for three days.
I'll come back on the 3rd day and if he's not better,
we're going to have to put him down.

Nearby, the pig listened closely to their conversation.
The next day, they gave him the medicine and left.
The pig approached the horse and said:
- Be strong, my friend.
Get up or else they're going to put you to sleep!
On the second day, they gave him the medicine and left.
The pig came back and said:
- Come on buddy, get up or else you're going to die!
Come on, I'll help you get up.
Let's go! One, two, three...
On the third day, they came to give him the medicine
and the vet said:
- Unfortunately, we're going to have to put him down tomorrow.
Otherwise, the virus might spread and infect the other horses.
After they left, the pig approached the horse and said:
- Listen pal, it's now or never!
Get up, come on! Have courage!
Come on! Get up! Get up!
That's it, slowly! Great!
Come on, one, two, three... Good, good.
Now faster, come on.... Fantastic! Run, run more!
Yes! Yay! Yes! You did it, you're a champion!!!

All of a sudden, the owner came back,
saw the horse running in the
field and began shouting:
- It's a miracle! My horse is cured.
This deserves a party. Let's kill the pig!
------------------

The moral of the story: sometimes merit is given to another.
Biblical link: "You shall sow, but not reap" (Micah 6:15).

Mario Balotelli gets one-match ban for offensive Instagram post

Mario Balotelli gets one-match ban for offensive Instagram post









Liverpool striker Mario Balotelli has been banned for one match and 
fined 25,000 pounds ($39,000) after admitting sending an offensive 
message on social media, the Football Association has confirmed.

Balotelli had shared an image on Instagram featuring the Nintendo 
character Mario that included the words "jumps like a black man and 
grabs coins like a Jew."

The
 Italy international later deleted the post, describing it as an 
"unlucky moment," and added in follow-up posts on Twitter that his own 
adopted mother is Jewish.

However, he was charged by the FA and suspended for one match.

An
 FA statement read: "Following an Independent Regulatory Commission 
hearing today [Thursday Dec. 18, 2014], Mario Balotelli has been fined 
25,000 pounds, suspended for one match with immediate effect, subject to
 any appeal, and warned as to his future conduct after he admitted 
breaching FA Rules in relation to social media.

"The charge was 
that an image the Liverpool player posted on social media was abusive 
and/or insulting and/or improper, contrary to FA Rule E3(1). 
Furthermore, the posting was considered to be an 'Aggravated Breach' as 
defined in FA Rule E3(2) in that it included a reference to ethnic 
origin and/or colour and/or race and/or nationality and/or religion or 
belief.

"Mr Balotelli has also been ordered to attend an education programme."

Balotelli
 confirmed soon after the ruling that he would not appeal, writing on 
Twitter: "Following the recent events related to my 'Super Mario' post, 
the FA decision has made clear that it was wrong. I am sorry that my 
teammates and supporters of Liverpool FC have to be penalized for 
something that I did and now come to regret.


BENETTI MONDO
In addition to the weekly italoBLACK clubnight which commences on August 7th in Edinburgh, DJ Benetti will be in London (UK) at the end of August, and Yokohama (Japan) on September 14th. More details soon!

CANZONE DEL GIORNO #1
Doctor's Cat - Andromeda (7:35)Aldo Martinelli worked  in different projects under a number of aliases (Cat Gang, Doctor's Cat, Martinelli, Moon Ray), and produced much from around 1983 onwards - the recurring 'cat' reference no doubt a nod towards producer and music computer programmer Fabrizio Gatto ('cat' in Italian) who he often worked with; all of his projects have that unmistakeable slow achingly melancholic vintage italo sound, a baroque appreciation of harmony and melody, and Andromeda is an exquisite example of that with Zanini's trademark soulful scifi lyrics

CANZONE DEL GIORNO #2
Dyva - On Fire (Caldo mix) (7:57)Dyva's slow heavy brooding classic must have sent chills down the spines of the two musicians when they were recording, let alone the thousands that have since revelled in it at club level volumes - even the instrumentation list on the rear of the 12" sleeve tells you you're in for an unforgettable treat: Linn Drum, Simmons Drum, Yamaha DX7, Moog Voyager, OScar Synth

CANZONE DEL GIORNO #3
M&G - When I Let You Down (6:03)M&G is essentially Italo legends The Creatures (the letters being the initials of the main members); whilst The Creatures had an eclectic output which ranged from progressive rock through to light pop and minimal electronic, and of course their trademark pure Italo sound which is present on this classic track; other versions of the song exist including one sung by Robert Tomasi

CANZONE DEL GIORNO #4
Freddy The Flying Dutchman And The Sistina Band - Wojtyla Disco Dance (part 2) (4:02)this bizarrely named song from 1979 is one of the very finest of the early Italo disco tracks; it was notably co-written by Stefano Pulga who would go on to become a prolific Italo producer through the 80s and 90s (Kano, Pink Project et al.); Wojtyla Disco Dance has clear roots in 70s New York disco yet underpinned by an achingly beautiful rhythmic melody that's a pre-echo of the Italo magic to come

Do you hear it?








  (function() {
    var li = document.createElement('script'); li.type = 'text/javascript'; li.async = true;
    li.src = 'https://platform.stumbleupon.com/1/widgets.js';
    var s = document.getElementsByTagName('script')[0]; s.parentNode.insertBefore(li, s);
  })();


franz in boracay beach


Hot Hot mocha Girls


sexy super star of gma kapuso star


1111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111


super sexy franz mocha


super sexy star mocha


sometimes, the smallest things take up the biggest space in our heart.
Ever since i was a little girl, i had a cuddly winnie the pooh which i took everywhere. from what my mum told me, i have been obsessed with winnie the pooh for, ever. and today was no exception. 




i find the pooh stories captivating, and timeless. even though i was the oldest in the cinema watching it, i wasn't embarrassed. i was too excited to care. 
reading the pooh stories, makes me wish i was a a little girl again...







First Sailing Holiday
My first holiday on the Norfolk Broads was in 1964 when I went with my parents on a motor cruiser. This was my first ever holiday in a yacht on the Broads and her name was Sally. In 2008 she is in private ownership. The dachshund was called Snoopy and the photographs were taken in 1971 and also in 1972 when Mike and I enjoyed a second holiday on Sally.













Gordon Boys on the Broads
We took four lads from Gordon Boys School for a sailing holiday on the Broads in 1974. We can't remember exactly when we went but it must have been during a school holiday and the slides were stamped with September 1974. They have been printed as photographs and then scanned.We were on the yacht Silver Arrow from Ernest Collins & Sons, Wroxham.

Birthday on the Broads 1980
These are the photos we have for our week's holiday in March/April 1980 on board Kingfisher from Wayford Bridge. While we were here it was Jamie's third birthday and his cake and presents were all taken with us for the celebration.First morning moored outside South Walsham Broad ...Simon sailing the dinghy at South Walsham ...Jamie's birthday on the 31st March and he had his cake when we were moored at the Pleasure Boat Inn at Hickling ...The boys are sailing us from Horsey ...We stopped at St Benet's Abbey ...We motored up to Wroxham but this yacht was well reefed coming downriver ...The Southern Comfort at Wroxham ...The view from the top of Ranworth church ...The old mill at Ludham Bridge ... Sally-Ann having a row at Barton Turf ...Mike went up the mast ...and then went back up with the camera ...Moored at Barton Turf ...Plenty of sailing in the dinghy on the last night ...Last morning and leaving Barton Turf for Wayford Bridge ...

Half-term in 'Discovery Bay'
For half-term week in October 1982 we hired a houseboat called Discovery Bay which was moored at Horning. In 1981 we'd bought a Westerly Nimrod called Varuna and we towed it to Norfolk, launched it from the slipway at Horning and kept it moored by the houseboat. We spent the week sailing from our base. Unfortunately we only have a few photos.Discovery Bay ...Ludham Bridge ...Salhouse Broad ...Potter Heigham ...The River Bure on the way to South Walsham ...Setting sail for home ...Well it has been a long day ...

Half-term in 'Respite'
Another half-term and another houseboat - this time it's Respite.Once again we took Varuna with us and we had good weather for our week on the Broads.Outside Respite ...Varuna is moored just behind ... Salhouse Broad ...  End of the week and time to pull Varuna out ... 

Poetry -1
Ye Husun Wale 
Wafa ki Qeemat kia Jaane

  
Be-wafa Hen Ye
Gham-e-Muhabbat kia Jaane

  
Milta Ho Jinhe Har Mor Per
Naya Hamsafar

  
Wo Hum Jaise Yaar ki
Qadar Kia Jaane.

Courtesy:
Yasir Qureshi 
0333-7575699



Quote - 1

 Failure will never overtake me ifmy determination to success is strong enough.

Courtesy:Mr. Nouman Shaikh0331-3418263


Bears n Whatnot also Spriggzy
Aloha peasants, I have just awoken from a glorious slumber which took place somewhat involuntarily between the hours and 4 and 8pm because Patrick was all "let's have a nap" and I was like "ugh fine you big dumb slut" so now I'm disoriented and also really hungry s0o0o0o hay.

"While having listerine I was like 'do I swallow this?' and then I read the back and it was like 'do not swallow this'." - Patrick

Aiight it is now three hours later (this is exactly like my old blog) and I'm doing an Australian working visa application for Patrock but I can't proceed until he returns from his excursion to the lavatory and finds his passport so I'm just eating this box of Lindt Christmas (Easter) eggs we got for seven pounds the other night when we went and bought all the food that I have ever known to exist.

-------

I wrote that like three days ago and since then we have acquired Patricia's working visa and booked his flights. Hol. La. Son. It snowed for ages so we had a movie night even though we have movie nights every night because that's what you do when you live wid yo boifran but we had an official movie night cos there was this much food.








Oi P.S. I am tired as tits right now cos we were frolicking around Covent Garden all day having a lovely time, purchasing/birthing Build-A-Bears and buying dashing new outfits for Patrice and having da best lunch ever aw shoo' guyz Matrick had an accidental date day let's all hold hands and sing aww to the tune of kumbaya in unison. If you wanna get technical this was only like our second date because we do heaps of shit but it's just like living and I don't know if that time we went to a concentration camp counts so yis that's something to ponder. After much discussion we came to the shared conclusions that we quite like dates and today was grand so we should do this more often so maybe we will who knows or maybe we will keep sitting in bed and watching River Monsters idk I'm cool with both. Srzli tho we now have a bear family and we're all sat on the bed watching videos and being adorbz so someone should come give us some kind of terrifying award.










Russell coming to life.










We made Patrick's little sister take some family portraits she loved it heaps.







How tiny is this dessert man, it was good tho



Seriously though today was a really good day. We also went to the Disney store. 



Also last night we went and met everybody's favourite future Prime Minister Spriggzy for dinna n bevanz. We went to McDonald's and it was only as he was ordering his mcnugz that Spriggzy remembered he's a vegan this week. Suckaaaaaaaa. He had veggie burger and was sad and we laughed at him god bless. Then we went into the houses of parliament and got krunk. For actualz.
















I was also in Spriggzy's VEDJ video for yesterday so take a gander at these dulcet tones.











Speaking of videos I made a new one on ma main channel and it's sick as hell guyz.







Ideekz what else I was gonna put here cos I just got distracted by a video for Patrick's secret by accident second channel so imma go but I will maybe write something somewhat worthwhile soon. We are going to see George tomorrow and I am excited because he's just a bundle of joy. Shatz0rs out.



Ps. Look at the pretty snow

Pps. One of the photos is of my feet cos I went and stood in the snow on the balcony to take pictures cos my shoes were far and my feet went blue and it was awesome





















Guten Tag
Hello there friends. I have decided to start a new blog because I have been going on many exciting adventures lately and I don't want to use my old blog and I don't feel as though twitter and tumblr and youtube are enough 4 da fanz. Also creative writing is one of my majors so I feel like I should probably start writing things that are not comments on Larry Stylinson fan videos s0o0o0o0o holla.

I am currently sitting on da bed while Patrock is downstairs eating some stuff that I do not want to eat and he's left on some Led Zeppelin live video for me to watch which is quite loud and it's an hour and 40 minutes long but it's just out of arm's reach so I don't really feel as though it's in my best interests to move my entire person and turn it off just yet.

We got back from Berlin this morning rawther early. We had to get up at 4.30 Germany time which is 3.30am here and now it's 9.30pm here so ideekz how I'm still awake guys but it's pretty miraculous and probably has something to do with gummi bears. Just remembered I had a really long nap so there's that. Man this video is loud. Should I put on One Direction instead? Imma put on One Direction instead.

Oi guyz something you may not be aware of but I super am is that I always have a buzzword for what I call people, for instance for a while there I was calling everybody playaz, then peasants, then kimosabe, then man and now we have reached a particularly potent phase in which I have apparently decided to refer to everyone and everything as "son." It sounds both condescending and street smart so needless to say I'm quite pleased with myself.

I lied to yall I'm not listening to the sweet sweet melodies of ma bb boi Zayn I'm actually having a solitary rave to I Knew You Were Trouble and I am so sorry for deceiving you like so sorry like I am so so sorry. But imma go now and do some pondering and probs do a post about Berlin or London or something lata so peace out home skillets I will catch you on the flip flop.

To Blog
So I've decided to start a blog. It should prove easier to keep everyone updated than me sending out e-mails to many different people, esp when I may not have a lot of time onlne, depending on where in the world I may be. So follow on and share your thoughts too. I hope my views will be of some use. :)

This might be the death of me :)
So after much searching through airlines and lining up timing, I've decided to leave Jamaica on Dec 31st, overnight in London then arrive in N'Djamena, Chad on the 2nd of January, 2010. That means I have a little over a month left! And Christmas is almost here too. :)I've been learning french...Remy on youtube was great, but I needed to speed things up a bit. The Lord provided someone that lives walking distance away to do french classes with me for free. I am very grateful for the classes, but I was also reminded why I didn't do french in CXC! Lol. But I must keep pressing. I've been so encouraged by the persons that have volunteered to support me in prayer and financially. It has been suggested to me to actually have persons meeting to pray, so I'll have to consider it and try to get that organised before I go. I've worked on a budget and I was surprised to find that the plane ticket works out to more than half of the total expenses! I should have expected that I suppose since the cost of living will not be very high. I really believe that the Lord will supply all my needs, and that I will get all the funds I need for this trip before I head off. I have been learning a lot from God. Little things will happen and it would bring me back all the time to how much preparation I was receiving during my years at UWI without realising it. Lately, the Lord has been teaching me about dying. The topic seemed to come up all the time, and I started to wonder if I was getting a hint from God or something. Almost everytime I turned on the radio, the topic would be something related to Phil 1:21, 'To live is Christ, to die is gain'. I also spotted the Foxe's book of Martyrs in our home library. It had always been there, but I decided to give it a read just now. And instead of being afraid, it excited me. I was amazed by the courage and boldness of these people to stand up for truth regardless of the consequences. There's a quote that says ''If you're not ready to die for Christ, you're not ready to live for Him." I really believe that. Though I don't expect to face anything that would cause me to die, and I definitely do not want to die just yet, I should be able to be obedient to God, no matter what. This brings me to the other, related thing I've been learning. Seperate from physical death, I really want to 'die to self'. I still want to hold on to my rights or my earthly possessions, but it's becoming clearer that obedience to God really means all of me will have to go. This is so much harder to become reality, it would be esier to accept a physical death. I am constantly being challenged. Before you know it, I'll be writing this from Chad, God's willing! I really am looking forward to it, and it will probably will hit me when I land. Please keep praying for me, as I learn from God, and as I continue trying to develop support for the trip. Until next time, Au Revoir!VM

2 Fish(es) were more than enough
I've been reading the stories of Elijah and Elisha again. The power that they had to do all those incredible things is the same power I have in me now. I remember Jesus taking two small fish and 5 loaves of bread and feeding thousands and thousands of people. It feels like I only have 2 small fish right now and I look around at the crowd of hungry faces and wonder what I'll do...I must hold 'unswervingly' and believe that Jesus will multiply those small fish in 4 weeks and I must be overly grateful for those fish.My favorite brother turned 22 last week. He's not been the happiest camper lately, but I am still praying for Him.What do I want? I want to believe. In growth and in the Lord's will being done.VM

Soon Come Back
It's finally here. It's really here. I'm leaving. There are things I am happy to leave, and I am happy to be going to Africa! But there's so much I'll miss as well. Like all the wedding prepatations my sister will be doing! And I'm gonna miss my mummy and daddy (and the rest of my family) so much. But I'll get to rest now, and I'll be where God wants, and there is no better place than that.I hope my cat gets fed, but I'd better keep myself fed spiritually too. I don't wan get too busy, or too distracted, etc. The three months will fly off so fast and I'm gonna come back a totally different person but I am so looking forward to it! And I am mostly looking forward to God doing some amazing work. But in His time and His way. I must go and pack. Maybe I'll catch some sleep first. I need that a lot.VM

TIRELESS SALES SOFTWARES
INCREASE YOUR REVENUES!Convert your website visitors into subscribers.Convert your subscribers into paying customers. BUILD YOUR MAILING LISTAdd a simple web-form to your website in 2 minutes to build your list, boost your traffic, get more customers. DELIVER YOUR NEWSLETTERSLaunch your email marketing with GetResponse's advanced newsletter hosting features and top email deliverability. TRACK YOUR RESULTSTrack your email marketing clicks, visitors, open-rates, undeliverables, sales and sign-ups! BUILD TRAFFIC TO YOUR BLOGBuzz comes and goes. Retain your traffic by automatic mailings to your visitors whenever you update your blog.You will benefit from unlimited email marketing and autoresponder features, follow ups, mailing lists, and broadcasts.Request InformationPowered by Responders.com

Letter to William Wilberforce
Dear Sir:    Unless the divine power has raised you us to be as Athanasius contra mundum, I see not how you can go through your glorious enterprise in opposing that execrable villainy which is the scandal of religion, of England, and of human nature. Unless God has raised you up for this very thing, you will be worn out by the opposition of men and devils. But if God be fore you, who can be against you? Are all of them together stronger than God? O be not weary of well doing! Go on, in the name of God and in the power of his might, till even American slavery (the vilest that ever saw the sun) shall vanish away before it.    Reading this morning a tract wrote by a poor African, I was particularly struck by that circumstance that a man who has a black skin, being wronged or outraged by a white man, can have no redress; it being a "law" in our colonies that the oath of a black against a white goes for nothing.  What villainy is this?     That he who has guided you from youth up may continue to strengthen you in this and all things, is the prayer of, dear sir,  Your affectionate servant,John Wesley

September 2008 Food Fair Balance Sheet


Contribution to Zaw Zaw Tun Family


Donation to Win Htay Myint Family
 Dears, We provided S$421.00 to Win Htay Myint family on 15/10/2008, 8:00pm at Lake Side MRT Station by Ko Aye Nyein. His younger brother Kyaw Kyaw Htun procured and acknowledged.   Thank you for your support, Aye Nyein

first time bloggers
Blogging for the first time...Heard the word 'blog' a thoudand times, read a few, now I get to write mine. How cool. I just hope I can be consistent with this. But I'll try. My blog title says 'travel with me': through my journeys of life; the joys, drama, emotions, academia, social, arts, family and all... At the moment I don't even have a car so I do most of my travelling on foot, so I hope I dont wear you out before this journey is over...but if we look on the bright side I'd be buying my Range Rover after grad school, then I can give you a cozy ride through the smooth or bumpy roads, while we observe and bask in the serenity and splendor of our immediate nature. listening to the sounds of soothing music from the stereo... But in the meantime we could atleast catch a taxi in a bid to make our journey a bit quicker..or better yet we could drive in your car, I'll pay for gas :-). My name is Uche obi or Uchenna Obi - actually to me they both are the same. My middle name is Samson. However, not a quarter of my friends know this fact. Ask me why, I couldn't say. I go to university in Jamaica, earning a bachelor's degree in Nursing, and I intend to go to PA grad school right afterwards( which is a few years from now).Welcome to my world, let this journey begin... but remember to grab your flip flops and water bottles for our loooong looong walk.

home time
So tonight is Royal Pains the show with the Doctor and his PA Divya... That's another favorite of mine. As I've been writing this from campus its about time to go home. Its 7:35 pm and my show starts @ 9. I have a 2o minute walk home to make from school, and I feel the urge to make my special fritas for dinner tonight together with a hot cup of tea. Sometime in the future I could write down the recipe for this so you can join me in enjoying this decent meal.... One other thing that made me glad in the month of July was the fact that I had a baby... not literally, but my poems are like my babies. I suffered writers block the entire month until a few days ago when I was inspired to pen a new poem.This I thought I might share. I still really don't have a title for this one, but through the eyes of God would suffice for now:Silence, stillness stretches a long distanceThoughtless, breathlessly lost in a tranceFluctuating emotions, mood swingsA mighty wind blows, head pinned on a pillowHis throes are lifted high in billowsVirtual reality, Pseudo abilitiesMan in a rat hole; running a rat raceCaught in mouse trap; doing a tap danceChasing illusions; reaches no conclusionsSee through the eyes of God; seek the solutionsMake that climb; reach highOne step at a time; limbs in tandemSlippery slopes; a loud cry for helpOn a branch called hope, he hangs midwayHeart is thumping; faith is not stoppingSilence, Silence; searching for his ambienceChasing for knowledge; reaching for wisdomJourneying down the street; the bitter the sweetTo weary to be swift. yet stomping the feetSee through the eyes of God; victory over defeat.Poetry is an art that I have come to love, inspired by God to express my passions and spread His word...at least most of the time...I might promise to put up some more poems on here, but only if you promise not to steal and abuse my copyrights...but then, who can I trust?... we'll see about that!For now, it's home time.

Look who's writng!
I keep fighting these thoughts in my head telling me I'm supposed to come up with some killer insights to write on this blog to make it exquisitely interesting...But another voice within reminds me to just keep it as simple as can be...And this I resolve to do... I don't do Tv much becasue I think its just a bunch of rubbish aired to inflitrate and control people's minds and cause them to act robotic. But then I have quite a few programs that I wouldn't miss; with their airtime in my head like wings at the back of a bird. Every week day at 3 pm one of my favorite shows SCRUBs airs on Mtv for an hour. The past few days I tune in to channel 55 at 3 on the dot to find Mtv showing something else. I wait for about 3o mins and still the same crap!...How very disappointing. But luckily today somehow I turn on the tv at about 2:15pm to find JD and Turk lurking at the corners of the hospital ward talking medical mumbo jumbo...How relieving! My scrubs came back! Ha! Someone from MTv should have called to let me know they were shifting the time an hour behind. Anyways, good thing I found out for myself... I went a little farther in Mr Limbaugh's the way things ought to be: quite an insightful book; these right wing conservatives kinda make sense if you look at at it from an angle, only thing is this angle can't contain everyone, so there'd always be disparity in views. I should find out if I'm conservative or liberal when I finish reading the book...But then, do I really care?? I came up with with a thought of the day while brooding over lunch. I'll share it with you: "There isn't much disappontment when we learn to cut low our expectations; marking the distinction between our needs and wants can guarantee us more satisfaction. Yet, there should never be an excuse not to exercise the power of faith in any circumstance"... Being hard hit by the recession, cutting low on expenses, yet still being happy and healthy despite seeming difficult circimstances inspired this thought. Now you might want to share this around!

Sluggish day
Day 2: started out pretty much sluggish. Staying up late at night reading through Rush Limbaugh's book made me really tired in the morning. Good thing I didn't have to observe my daily ritual of 6 am at the gym today. This gym which has slowly started to become a pleasant 80 mins that begins my day - or so i suppose, even though I know some ealry birds at the gym that may oppose :-)... as much as I enjoy the work out, I enjoy my bed a little more. It used to be so much struggle and will power to put an end to my many pleasant dreams and keep awake...But these days are better... Summer's slowly inching away, coming to an end. The holiday, I would say, has been quite pleasant... My ever kind and cheerful landlord does her best to ensure I have a good time... Sometimes I think she mistakes me for her son... We went together to the supermarket today and did some shopping, and she would offer to pay for whatever it is I wanted...as tempting as it sounds...I say no I'm fine. It just didn't feel good making the old lady spoil me like a little lad... So we drive home and engage in a little conversation over a bottle of beer... drifting from topic to topic...not that I recall all that we talked about, but soon it was time to go to my room, make my lunch, and get with the business of the day...

The best is yet to come
So I successfully wrote one post...didn't seem so bad after all. I believe these posts are supposed to reflect my true persona in the realest sense; the rivers of thoughts and motives that flow within my mind to give life to my being. well, I will endeavour to depict clearly and truly these thoughts on these pages and stay original the best I can. But where do we begin? from childhood days in the bustling city of Lagos Nigeria? Or to my tormentous days of boarding house in the remote village of Ogbomosho in Nigeria...? Boy this one thing I can tell you for a fact: I have come a long way to get to where I am today. And If i ever I'm called upon to give a motivating speech to a group of underdogs or to mentor a child grown in adversity, my words would be: use the power of your imagination, believe in yourself, seek to surround yourself with persons of high values and motives and let the truth in your inner spirit be your guide... The imaginable is possible! The best is yet to come, for me and for you!

BBC News - Iran displays military might in the Persian Gulf
http://www.bbc.co.uk/news/world-16360740

ALL MUSIC IS RUBBISH
HOMINIDS AND NEANDERTHALS KNBEW NOT SHAME NOR GUILT



This is a test

Matilda auditions London

The Royal Shakespeare Company is looking for girls and boys to play the roles of Matilda, Bruce, Lavender and their classmates for its production of Matilda the Musical at Cambridge Theatre, London.

There is lots of singing involved, as well as acting and even more dancing! 

All children must be between the ages of 8 -13, and MUST be under 4ft 10.

Boys must have unbroken voices.

All children must live within the M25, as we would like them to live at home and attend their own schools

HOWEVER, for the roles of Matilda and Bruce only, we welcome children from further afield. The RSC assist with accommodation and tutoring where necessary.

For the role of Matilda, girls must be under 4ft 3.

All children must be available for the entire rehearsal and  performance period, January to mid September 2013, and no holidays will  be allowed during this period. Parents must be able to bring their  children into all rehearsals and performances.
For further information, and an application for, please email Jessica Ronane, Children's Casting Director, at   matilda@jessicaronane.com

Challenges
The more things change, the more they remain the same. We born, we live and then we die.  What is our purpose in life? Our days are routine and mostly predictable. For some it's school, home, and then bed; for others its work, school, church, home then bed. We spend hours ironing our clothes to sit and crush it in less than a minute of putting it on.  Our purpose here is greater than ourselves and the sooner we find it out the better.Lord, please teach us to number our days

Movie Maker or Movie Breaker
Excellent movie development programme but quite a tedious task. Movie making should be left to the experts...let the teachers or the government purchase their products.




Techno Supplements
This course is packed with activities, without a proper dose of technology jargons and a spoonful of PowerPoint vitamins each day, nothing much will be accomplished. Its quite possible that 500mg of incentives and 250mcg of grade point average would boost my energy levels a little more.

Reflections
How has the past two days impacted you? What has been your most insightful experience and what has been your least meaningful experience? What would you like to see improved during the course of the week?

Are you happy to see me?
Today's Pony

Today I'm thinking about talking to my pony. About saying out loud that it's nice to see them both. About my tone of voice being genuine and warm.

You know, I really think this has made a big difference to for Cy. I very rarely need to make an effort to be warm and happy with Diilun (and he is very good at forgiving me if I'm not with it one day occasionally), but with Cy....

Cy is new. And in a really terrible way (although I love him and appreciate him being here with me, and being my pony) I very vaguely resent him. For being so bloody happy to see me. And being so young and ignorant and just not knowing anything. For not being Saaleenh, basically. Which is a terrible thing, because I cannot ask him to be something he is not.

Which is why I have made an effort over the last few days to actually smile when I see him, and tell him that it's nice to see him. And to actually feel warm and pleased about him. And touch him affectionately, with no reason (not to train a response, just a light affectionate touch as I walk past or stand waiting).

And somehow this has helped me be a little more patient and present. And he has seemed happier to see me.



Yesterday's Pony

Today I wrote the "When?" (timeline) page out and it really hit home just how much I was doing with her. From July last year onwards, we (as a partnership) came so far and did so much. Particularly from January this year through until June (when she died) we did so much - one or two significant 'things' every month. Poor thing, she probably needed a rest! She did get a lot of rest too (eg. a week of rest after a 40km ride), but looking at it now, I hope she didn't feel overworked. She looked fresh and soft in her dressage test video...

(Perhaps in retrospect, she could have had more rest. The plan for the remainder of June was for some rest and then gradually back into light work to be ready for August's mini-Shahzada...)

So today I miss that. All that doing stuff with her. We did so much cool stuff. She was the first horse I had that I felt like I could have a go at almost anything. And I don't even remember thinking I was busy.... sure I was always on the go, but not like overwhelmed. Ah, maybe I was... but all I can remember was having fun. I remember I went training with friends (30km of mountain in 3-ish hrs) one Saturday, and whilst we were having lunch they asked me if I wanted to stay the night and ride the next day too. I said thank you but I had to go because I was thinking of going to a gymkhana the next day. So I took her home and packed the car for the next day because I thought it would be something cool to do. We went to the show, we won a few ribbons but didn't put in a great performance. And I remember thinking that it wasn't our finest day... but I remember having fun and thinking my horse was awesome! :)

Ahhh... I miss her.

Holy cow




Today's PonyToday I'm glad that horses aren't cows. I rode a mechanical bull for the first time today (yay for cool work chrissy party) and ahhhh... it was hard work, hahahaha!

I'm also noticing that I'm getting a lot more happy faces from Cy. He seems to be more interested in interacting in a respectful way. His hanging out at the gate next to Diilun is resulting in some normal ears-back type behaviour from Diilun. I'm worried because I want Diilun to be the boss and I hope that as Cy gets more confident that he doesn't try to challenge Diilun. I hope I'm worrying about nothing... Oh, the things we spend our thoughts on!







Yesterday's PonyToday I am remembering a particular moment and feeling. I trained at Pauls Rd a bit because it was so close for me. After riding and getting back to the car, I would untack her and let her pick the grass on the side of the road. We'd just hang out together in the sun, she'd enjoy the grass and I'd enjoy that contented munching sound that ponies make.

Sometimes I just miss her in a physical sense - I think about how it felt to touch her on the shoulder. I can remember now just how her legs were, how they looked and felt, her knees, the cannons, the fetlocks, where the scars were and how hard those tough little legs were. I think of her fluffy winter coat, her sleek summer coat, her hooves, her petiteness, her ears. Sometimes all those memories make it seem like I can almost reach out and touch her in my memories. Just lightly on the shoulder, because she wasn't big on being fussed over. But I think she loved being together and doing stuff together. And we did lots of that. :)

Planning our 2012 trip


All the fares are booked for our trip to Australia, Singapore and Thailand. I will keep you up to date with information on our travels on this blog.

...And to the top and around the volcano


After we left Undara we climbed to the top of the Kalkani
volcano. It was an easy climb and we walked around the crater rim. From here we
could see some of the 168 volcanoes in this area.
The photos into the crater don't really show the depth - need 3-D to see it properly.










My Motto.




King Freddo Frog






Back to School Makeup Tutorial ft. My Favourite Drugstore Products...

With back to school right around the corner, I thought it would be an appropriate time to create a easy and simplistic look that also is very flattering on anyone. All the products and brushes used in the tutorial can be found at your local drugstore. These are all my favourite everyday beauty products that are both inexpensive and great quality.

I know when I was in school, I always needed to have my makeup done but I also needed my sleep in the morning. This look I've created can be done fast in easy in the mornings and everything used is ritually available to you which is also important.

I started wearing makeup when I was in grade 7 - I'll never forget exactly what I wore. I had a beloved purple eyeshadow from Covergirl (can't remember the name) and a dark purple eyeliner. If I can make any suggestions to those starting to experiment with makeup - stick with your NEUTRALS, they will never steer you wrong:)

Products Mentioned in Video:

Revlon Colorstay Whipped Foundation in #220 Nude
Maybelline Instant Age Rewind Concealer in Neutralizer
Rimmel Stay Matte Powder in Transparent
Elf Powder Brush
Hard Candy Baked Bronzer in Tiki
Loreal Wear Infinite Studio Secrets Eyeshadow in #821 Neutrals
Elf Liquid Liner
Maybelline Colosso Volumizing Mascara in Glam Black
Real Techniques Contour Brush
Real Techniques Buffing Brush
Rimmel Sun Shimmer Bronzer
Hard Candy Fox in a Box Blush in Spicy & Sweet
Revlon Lip Butter in Creme Brule
Revlon Lip Gloss in Peach Petal








What are some of your favourite drugstore products?!


Hope you enjoyed!








Brianna xo











Lov3OfPurpl3



2015 Land Rover Range Rover 5.0L V8 Supercharged Autobiography 4dr 4x4 LWB Overview
The Range Rover is Land Rover's most prestigious offering, a luxury sport utility vehicle with a long history of quality craftsmanship and legendary "go anywhere" off-road prowess.
The five-passenger Range Rover is available in four trim levels: 3.0L V6 Supercharged, 3.0L V6 Supercharged HSE, 5.0L V8 Supercharged and 5.0L V8 Supercharged Autobiography. Power is supplied by either a 340-hp 3.0-liter supercharged V6, or a 510-hp 5.0-liter supercharged V8. Both engines feature direct fuel injection and a stop/start system, and are mated to an eight-speed automatic transmission with manual mode and paddle shifters. Full-time four-wheel drive with Land Rover's acclaimed "Terrain Response" system and an electronic air suspension help tackle a wide range of off-road conditions; Supercharged and Autobiography trims get Dynamic Response and enhanced "Terrain Response 2 Auto" systems. Trim-dependent standard equipment includes: a power liftgate/tailgate, 19-/20-/21-inch aluminum wheels, sliding panoramic roof, fog lights, auto-dimming exterior mirrors, Xenon headlights, passive entry/start, heated leather front/rear seats, tri-zone automatic climate control, hard drive-based navigation and a Meridian sound system, complete with HD/satellite radio, Bluetooth wireless music streaming and DVD audio/video capability. The exclusive Autobiography showcases soft-close doors, premium seating with massage function, front and rear climate-controlled seats, an upgraded audio system and integrated rear seat entertainment. Safety features include eight airbags, anti-lock brakes with brake assist, electronic stability control with traction control and roll mitigation, and front/rear park assist. Adaptive front lighting, automatic high beam assist, blind spot monitoring, adaptive cruise control, a surround camera system and automated Park Assist are also available (standard on the Autobiography).
The Land Rover Range Rover carries over unchanged for 2015.
    

2015 Land Rover Range Rover 5.0L V8 Supercharged Autobiography 4dr 4x4 Overview
The Range Rover is Land Rover's most prestigious offering, a luxury sport utility vehicle with a long history of quality craftsmanship and legendary "go anywhere" off-road prowess.
The five-passenger Range Rover is available in four trim levels: 3.0L V6 Supercharged, 3.0L V6 Supercharged HSE, 5.0L V8 Supercharged and 5.0L V8 Supercharged Autobiography. Power is supplied by either a 340-hp 3.0-liter supercharged V6, or a 510-hp 5.0-liter supercharged V8. Both engines feature direct fuel injection and a stop/start system, and are mated to an eight-speed automatic transmission with manual mode and paddle shifters. Full-time four-wheel drive with Land Rover's acclaimed "Terrain Response" system and an electronic air suspension help tackle a wide range of off-road conditions; Supercharged and Autobiography trims get Dynamic Response and enhanced "Terrain Response 2 Auto" systems. Trim-dependent standard equipment includes: a power liftgate/tailgate, 19-/20-/21-inch aluminum wheels, sliding panoramic roof, fog lights, auto-dimming exterior mirrors, Xenon headlights, passive entry/start, heated leather front/rear seats, tri-zone automatic climate control, hard drive-based navigation and a Meridian sound system, complete with HD/satellite radio, Bluetooth wireless music streaming and DVD audio/video capability. The exclusive Autobiography showcases soft-close doors, premium seating with massage function, front and rear climate-controlled seats, an upgraded audio system and integrated rear seat entertainment. Safety features include eight airbags, anti-lock brakes with brake assist, electronic stability control with traction control and roll mitigation, and front/rear park assist. Adaptive front lighting, automatic high beam assist, blind spot monitoring, adaptive cruise control, a surround camera system and automated Park Assist are also available (standard on the Autobiography).
The Land Rover Range Rover carries over unchanged for 2015.
    

2015 TOYOTA COROLLA OVERVIEW
The Toyota Corolla is a front-wheel drive five-passenger compact sedan, well-known for being reliable and economical, yet refined and comfortable. The 11th generation Corolla is distinguished by a new exterior design, an upgraded interior with more passenger room, and an available continuously variable transmission (CVTi-S).The Corolla is available in four trims: L, LE, S, and new LE ECO. 
The powertrain for the L, LE, and S trims is a 132 horsepower, 1.8-liter dual VVT-I engine, matched with a six-speed manual, four-speed automatic, or continuously variable transmission (CVTi-S). The LE ECO includes a 140 horsepower, 1.8-liter engine with Valvematic, combined with the CVTi-S transmission. Safety features include front, side-impact, side-curtain, and new drivers knee airbags, ABS with brake assist, and whiplash protecting front seat active head restraints. Air conditioning and Vehicle Stability Control (VSC) with Traction Control are also standard on all models. 
All Corollas now include LED headlamps, Bluetooth, a USB port, and power windows. Available features include cruise control, 16-inch wheels, tilt-and-slide power moonroof, Entune Audio, backup monitor, navigation, and leather.The Toyota Corolla is a carryover for 2015.
    

BBC link...
Captured on film by BBC, who were doing street interviews with potential voters in Enniskillen and broadcast on Tuesday last, My BBC debut - at the end of the video if you're busy or impatient.




Spot the dog...




Our First Meeting
as the title says, our first meeting was @ the nw defunct devils bar.. i was there wif angeline & peter.. both of them which i'm nt in contact wif ever since i go tgt wif him.. nvm the part abt them..it was a normal fri nite out.. juz the usual activity for tat wk wif the usual ppl @ the usual hangout but the unusual nite tat changed my life.. was hanging ard, smoking & drinking my coke & went to dance floor occasionally.. when we got back to our drinks, he came over to say hi.. as it was a dark plc, couldn't see his looks properly.. juz noe tat he doesn't look ugly.. i wld say presentable ba.. his height ard 1.75m, short hair, wearing glasses.. he started the conversation.. & the common question popped out.. "can i hv ur no.?".. & i was playing hard to get.. "i haven even noe u for 5 mins & u're asking me for my no.." wah lau.. he muz be thinking tat tis girl nt reali tat pretty still wana play hard to get.. but luckily he nv gif up la.. eventually of cos i gave him my no.. he was nt the oni 1 who asked for my no.. i dunno tat day was my lucky nite or wat.. cos i've been to devils bar many times & i guess tat was the first time ppl asked for my no.. usually if we hang out at those bengish clubs, i'll get asked for my no. very often but nt devils lor.. so i was reali quite surprised when he came over.. he din left a deep impression but i tot he was cute..he started to sms me.. i tot he muz be testing if tis is my no.. he wanted to ask me go a corner to chat but i was thinking no la.. cos if we were to go somewhr brighter, all my flaws on my face will start to show.. & i scare i got nothing to talk to him so i decline his offer.. we juz smsed.. & tat's hw it started..

Telederm Consult


You can access the latest online video teleconferencing facility here for the new Federal Government Tele- Health item numbers.

Click here for a Particular Dermatologist 

Click here for the first available appointment

Kelas Gratis Harian Forex Samarinda

Free Class ini sengaja kami buat untuk sahabat Harian Forex Samarinda yang ingin mempelajari forex secara gratis, dengan materi-materi yang berkualitas yang akan membantu anda untuk memahami forex, mulai dari dasar sampai menjadi seorang trader profit.



Materi-materi ini sudah kami kelompokkan kedalam beberapa bagian, secara terorganizir dan berurutan. Disamping itu, kami juga menyediakan pilihan materi tersebut kedalam bentuk materi bebas dan materi konsep.

Materi bebas adalah kumpulan materi forex yang membahas tentang pengenalan forex dasar, kosa kata forex, serta beberapa trik trading dengan menggunakan indikator yang terdapat didalam platform trading atau standar metatrader.

Sedangkan didalam materi konsep, kami akan berusaha untuk mengumpulkan berbagai konsep trading free for shared concept yang selama ini dibahas hangat oleh berbagai trader diseluruh indonesia bahkan dunia, dan membagikannya kepada anda.



Pada Free Class ini, kami tidak menyediakan sesi tatap muka ataupun kursus live. Kami juga tidak menyediakan moderator untuk menanggapi setiap pertanyaan yang berkaitan dengan materi tersebut, tetapi yang ada hanyalah penyediaan materi-materi forex untuk anda baca dan anda fahami.



Bila anda menginginkan pembelajaran live ataupun pola pembelajaran langsung, maka kami juga menyediakan pilihan Kelas Premium. Tentang Kelas Premium, anda bisa mengaksesnya melalui menu Kelas Premium di portal ini.



Semoga materi-materi yang kami sampaikan disini bermanfaat untuk kita semua, Amin,,, dan selamat membaca.













Salam

Harian Forex Samarinda





 












Kelas Gratis Materi Bebas | Harian Forex Samarinda

Halaman ini berisi materi-materi forex trading yang kami ambil dari portal berita seputar forex. Jika anda menginginkan materi-materi forex ekslusif, silahkan akses menu Kelas Premium.




Salam 

Harian Forex Samarinda

var numposts = 500;
var standardstyling = true;










Kontak | Hubungi Kami

Silahkan hubungi kami dikontak berikut ini :



Call / SMS

- 0852 6556 6591

- 0813 9118 9659



Email

admin@harianforex.com



Website

samarinda.harianforex.com



Harap Diperhatikan !

Samarinda.HarianForex.com tidak pernah menggunakan kontak selain yang tercantum diatas ...


Getting some real work done
As for my second day back in at EF-COLE I was assigned to work with one the women pattern cutting.












For cutting the pattern pieces they have a machine that layers the fabric in large pieces on the of each other straight from the roll. The ladies then check the fabric to ensure it's all straight. The machine has a setting to to adjust how long the fabric needs to be. After the fabric is ready the pattern paper is set on top of the fabric and with a large iron pressed down in place.

























There are marking on the pattern paper to indicate size.


To cut the pattern pieces they use an industrial fabric cutter which kind of looks like a saw. The cutter is pretty dangerous so for an inexperienced person to use it you're made to wear a metal chain glove so you don't cut yourself.

















These are some small sample pieces I cut to try the fabric cutter.













Some pattern pieces ready to be sewn.




One of the guys at work.





Teagan's Toy box
So today I plan to go through Teagan's toy baskets... AGAIN!Believe it or not, there are more books in there than toys. Among her collection, are her beloved Maisy books (Maisy the mouse), which her lovely Grandad Barrie brought her last visit. She reads them EVERY day without fail, and knows most words off by heart.  One cute one is called 'Doctor Maisy' and it's about Maisy and her friend Tallulah dressing up as Doctor Maisy and Nurse Tallulah. They check toy Panda's heartbeat, Teagan follows along 'BABOOM! BABOOM!', she loves that bit. Wish my grandparents had kept my little nurse outfit when I was about 4-5 years old. Teagan would love that. Ah well.. her pink ballerina dress certainly does the trick! Thanks to Aunty Abs :DAnyway, back to her baskets...There's toys in one of her baskets that is full of random blocks and she doesn't seem to be the blocks type of kid. Books, drawing, puzzles and telephones are her thing. So I think her building blocks can go elsewhere for another time/child...  and give us some sitting room space again.How come kids stuff take over your whole house?!

My little girl's expression of love
While enjoying my breakfast in bed this morning (brownie points awarded to Dan for this), Teagan stood at the bottom of the stairs and shouted up:  'Mummy,... *gobbledegook* the spoon!'Me:  'Oh right...         Teagy? Mummy will be come downstairs in a few minutes okay?'T:  'Okay Mummy!'Me: 'Thank you Teagy, I love you'T:  'I love you Mummy'Me: 'I love you more!'T:  'I love you more a (than) dancing!'Me:  'You love Mummy more than dancing?? Really??'T:  'Yes!'I thought to myself - You win you clever kid. She's obsessed with dancing of late :)

My morning highlights
Good morning Tuesday, you are almost as awkward as your friend Monday!
Today started with 'Mummy, I have poo on my top'.
Later, I was greeted with a bit more of the same subject, different child... 
And then at breakfast time, she finished her cereal, I offered toast, said 'I don't know where Daddy put the butter, can you have peanut butter instead please?'...
Her reply: 'You can MAKE some butter, IF you want!' 
3 year old logic, can't beat it!
*chuckle*
Update:
At the end of my evening, I heard 5 words I never want to hear put together again... 'There's poo on the soap!' Boy, was I glad it was nearly bedtime.



Adopt-A-Talent Sports Releases Names Of Coaches
The Management Committee of Adopt-A-Talent Sports Programme has made public the names of 30 coaches for the second phase of the project.Notably among the names is former Nigerian international and ex-Super Eagles' goalkeeper trainer, Joseph Erico, who will be in charge of Football. He will be assisted by Ademola Fakorede, Babajide Oguntuase, and Williams Oletu.Boxing has Joe Mensah, a seasoned coach with Nigeria Boxing Federation and handler of World Boxing Council, WBC, Welterweight contender, Olusegun Ajose. He will be assisted by Wasiu Bisiriyu and Daniel Faseso.Basketball has another former national coach and Director of Sports in Lagos, Ganiyu Otenigbagbe as the Head Coach. He will be assisted by Coach of Zenith Bank Women Premier League side, Deepwater Basketball Club, Lateef Erinfolami, Yinka Oyewunmi and Olamide Agbeseyi.Uruemu Adu is the Head Coach of Athletics, while Bamidele Solomon and Saheed Okeola will assist him.Oluwole Orukotan is in charge of Table Tennis. He will be assisted by Olasumbo Dele and Ganiyu Kadiri.Highly rated in the nation top class coach, Edokpolo takes charge in Judo, with Coach Gbenga Orteje as assistant. Patrick Edem will be in charge in Gymnastics with John Oyewuwo and Chinedu Ajero as assistant.Karate has Olusina John as the Head Coach. He has Alfred Fatolu and Jude Oyibokure as assistants, while Swimming has Goodie Emefuna as Head Coach. He will be assisted by Mrs. Eniola Omope and Abiodun Ojomo. Yet again one time former national coach and US based Suraj Onatuga heads Volleyball. Gift Sowemimo is appointed as the Chaperon for the programme.Speaking on the appointment, chairman of the Management Committee, Prince Wale Oladunjoye said that at least three coaches with proven track records were appointed for each of the 12 sports in the ongoing second phase of the programme."Looking at the list, one is impressed to find a good number of national coaches being attracted to this wonderful programme approved by Governor Babatunde Raji Fashola," said the Senior Special Assistant on Grassroots Sports Development to the Governor."The appointment of these former Nigerian internationals is a wakeup call to people who have shown interest in sponsoring and adopting athletes in this programme to please redeem their pledges in order to encourage others to adopt athletes in their chosen sports," he said.

Agege Stadium To Host Speaker's Soccer Cup Final.
All is now set for the final of this year's edition of the Speaker's Soccer Cup fixed for next Thursday at the Agege Stadium.Chairman House Committee on Youth, Sports and Social development, Honourable Lawrence Babatunde Ayeni,confirmed the Ifelodun Local Council Development Area would confront Apapa Local Government in the 3rd place match.According to him, Ajeromi Ifelodun and Ikorodu West LCDA will slug it out in the final as forty team registered for the annual soccer competition.Ayeni, who appealed to all the participating teams for postponing the competition till next Thursday, explained that the competition would have come to an end in December, 2011 but the Lagos State house of Assembly was too busy to ratify the 2012 budget.He stressed that the nation wide industrial action staged by the organised labour also affected the competition as the state's Deputy governor, Adejoke Orelope- Adefulire,Speaker, Lagos State House of Assembly,Adeyemi Ikuforiji, Commissioner for, Local Government and Cheiftancy Affairs, Ademorin Kuye,Commissioner for Youth, Sports and Social Development, Wahid Enitan Oshodi, are among the top dignatries expected to grace the ocassion.

Akinwunmi Charges Coaches Not To Succumb To Pressure.
The Lagos State Football Association Chairman, Seyi Akinwunmi, has charged the appointed coaches to be upright in their handling of the teams ahead of the National Sports Festival svcheduled for November, 2012.Akinwunmi, urged the football coaches not to succumb to pressure in their quest to select football players that would enhance the state to win the football event in the EKO 2012 Games, stressing that they must not relent in their efforts to bring glory to the State at the festival. The FA Chairman warned the coaches not to delve into any unprofessional manner that could tarnish the image of the F.A and the state, adding that the F.A stand the chance to drop and replace any football coach found in such in the course of their assignment.He urged them to see the appointment as a challenge to further develop themselves and also to make a mark in their chosen career as he promised that the F.A would create a platform for the coaches to embark on regular refresher courses to acquint themselves with the modern techniques of training.The FA Chairman noted that the Association would not only employ other staff to complement the work of the coaches but will also employ other coaches for its various programmes.






ALBERTO SEVESO FINALS

The reason I picked these two photos were because of what I see in the photos.in the picture at the bottom I see a Jaguar roaring (top of the purple picture.The reason I picked the top picture is because I like the ball on the Bottom right side of that photo.Overall I think these photo's are good.


ANTHONY GOICOLLEA CONTACT SHEET

I really like this artist due to the way he manipulates your mind.Overall this is one of the best artists I have done so far.





DAVID HILLIARD ACTUAL WORK










DUANE MICHALS EMULATION












ANTHONY GOICOLEA FINALS





Abigail Davison

Last Name: Davison
First Name: Abigail
Gender: Female
Date of Birth: 2047
Date of Death:
Status: Single
Significant Other: NA?
Mother: Macie Davison
Father: Jim Davison
Siblings: AJ Davison

Zodiac: Cancer
Personality: Neat, Shy, Active, Playful, Mean

Primary Aspiration: Romance
Secondary Aspration: Family
LTW:
OTH: Sports 
Turn Ons:
Turn Off:
Gender Preference: Straight

Darren Zappa

Last Name: ZappaFirst Name: Darren
Gender: Male
Date of Birth: Winter 2062

Current Age (#): 0
Status: Child
Significant Other: NA

Mother: Christina Zappa
Father: Moonunit Zappa
Siblings: Dingo Winchester, Dawson Zappa

Grandparents: Benjamin and Cheryl Winchester
Aunts and/or Uncles: Catherine Thayer
Cousins: Daniel Thayer, Daniella Thayer

Previous Pictures:



Dawson Zappa

Last Name: Zappa
First Name: Dawson
Gender: Male
Date of Birth: Summer 2060
Date of Death: NA
Current Age (#): 2
Status: Child
Significant Other: NA

Mother: Christina Zappa
Father: Moonunit Zappa
Siblings: Dingo Winchester, Darren Zappa

Grandparents: Benjamin and Cheryl Winchester
Aunts and/or Uncles: Catherine Thayer
Cousins: Daniel Thayer, Daniella Thayer

Previous Pictures:


Dominique Rose Devlin
Last Name: Devlin
First Name: Domnique Rose
Maiden Name: Devlin
Gender: Female
Date of Birth: Fall 2061
Date of Death: NA
Status: Child
Significant Other: NA 

Mother: Lizette Devlin
Father: Jake Devlin
Siblings: Garrett Kirby-Devlin

Zodiac: Gemini
Personality: Sloppy, Outgoing, Active, Serious, Mean
Traits:

Primary Aspiration: 
Secondary Aspration:
LTW:
OTH: Fitness
Turn Ons:
Turn Off:
Gender Preference:

A synopsis of the course 










A March Monday





Hi,
What a busy weekend! The Allhallows Crop on Saturday ...a 
fab time with lovely people, supper with our friends Karen and Ian and Sunday spent with my husband lugging furniture around ! My back is
 a bit ouch today.

I spent some time in my craft room 
this morning making loads & loads of wedding invitations ..so no new
 card to show you but I made this one using Clarity Stamps some time 
ago.Three of the stamp -stamps and the pocket watch stamp along with the
 verse 'What is life if full of care.....' This design is shown on a 
Barbara Gray, Clarity Stamp DVD and is a project that I really enjoyed 
doing.
Thanks for dropping by ...have a good week.
Eileen

Clarity Stamps and Adirondack Inks
















































Hiya, I had a very busy Friday. It was my birthday. My family 
and friends made sure I had a super day...thank you all for the cards 
and presents ...more Spellbinder 'nesties' great stuff!


On
 Wednesday I posted my Fairy Coach card and said I would make another 
card from the scrap paper I had used to take off the excess ink from my 
brayer. I liked the colours so much.


Well
 ....here it is. Because I used just cheap copy paper I had to back it 
with a stronger white card then I stamped and heat embossed in black, 
both of the Clarity leafy swirl stamps.
After slicing the 
finished image into three and mounting each of the sections onto dark 
purple card stock, I mounted them onto a white card blank and added 
three cut,embossed and stencilled ( with dye based inks) Spellbinder 
butterflies...I am pleased with it and from now on will look closely at 
any sheets of copy paper I use with my brayer before I throw them away !

Enjoy the rest of your weekend & thanks for looking.


Eileen x


Deer In The Wild (SOLD)



Price: Php 1,300.00

Acrylic Painting In Board...

Life That Goes Beyond (SOLD)



Price: Php 1,300.00

Acrylic Painting In Board

Upcoming!


Painting Prices!

Payment method: Paypal, BPI, & Union Bank.

Price ( In canvas cloth depending on the style or design to be painted.)

Php(?) 3,000.00-3,500.00

Day 3: Epcot
Since it was Saturday, we planned on doing more activities in the front half of the park. Despite what the predicted crowd levels were, we figured the World Showcase would be busy with all the foodies and winos.We left our room by 8:15, had breakfast in the lounge (I think I had quinoa with blueberries), and arrived at Epcot by 8:45. Nothing like a few early morning bus stop shots!Once the park was opened, it was announced that Test Track was down. Go figure, a GM sponsored attraction that breaks down often... Anyway, so that kind of threw a kink in our plans. Instead of heading to Soarin' like the rest of the park attendees, we decided to amble. Seriously, I don't get the appeal with Soarin'. Maybe I'm dulled to the whole Imax thing since I saw tons of Imax films as a kid. It's just not that interesting to get seatbelted into a theatre seat and dangle above an Imax screen and have the occasional scent blasted out at you. People LOVE it. I did it once back in 2005, when it was new. I also did the Disneyland one last year. They aren't different. It's not the best film either, you flash from scene to scene, with barely any transition. I will never understand the appeal for people to wait over an hour to see it. It's good to do it once, but again and again??We took a few shots at the fountain, then Tamara spotted two security guards. Once they saw she was going to photograph them, they had to pose.As we walked towards the Land, we passed by the Character Spot.Goofy came running to the window and gestured to us. We decided we might as well check out the characters.  Here we are with Mickey and Pluto.There was hardly any line, so we got a bunch of photos with the "fab five". We headed over to do Journey into Imagination- a ride that never has a wait. This fun sign is located just after the ride. I love the gradient of coloured lights and the fun font!Next up, we headed to the Seas with Nemo. It's a clam style ride, you actually sit in a clam as you go through some ocean scenes. After the ride, we wandered through the various sea exhibits. It's such a relaxing atmosphere, definitely a nice place to unwind...Or get eaten by a shark. Last time, I had quite the photo with Bruce, so I had to do something similar! I remembered that I had gotten my clothes dirty when I tried to pose, but I certainly didn't recall how high up the mouth is. It's like they don't want you climbing inside and hanging out of his mouth! I actually ended up bruising my ribs a bit from doing this. I had a redder bruise right by my sternum, and another bruise, fang shaped a little lower!Here's the one from 2005. My pose was a little bit better last time.Once we were done there, we headed to Living with Land. We had the whole row to ourselves, and were recipients of the oh so exciting time card, our first one so far! Here are some of the Season themed balloons inside the area.After that we checked the time board. Test Track was back up with quite a wait, so we got a FP then went to Mission Space (green). We did the original version back in 2005, when there was no tamer option available. There is quite a difference between the two versions. I wouldn't do the orange version again, but the green version is just so tame. The queue has some fun space theming though!We still had time before our 11:30 lunch reservation, so we checked out the Food and Wine Festival center. There was a lot of the same kinds of merchandise available. One of the only things that caught my eye was a recipe book that contained a lot of the booths' recipes. However, I was not about to pay $40 US for it. Oh well!We walked slowly to Coral Reef, got there for opening, and were seated on the 2nd level. I think the 2nd level might have better viewing than the 1st. You have the chance to see all the windows into the aquarium, versus just one big window right next to your table. The service here was actually too fast.  Go figure, I snapped a few photos of some of the lights there!I had the Seared Rainbow Trout with Warm Salad of White Beans, Arugula, Tomatoes, Crispy Bacon, Aged Balsamic Vinegar, and Brown Butter.Tamara had the Lobster Ravioli with Tomatoes, Olives, Capers, and Shaved Parmigiano-Reggiano Cheese.After lunch, we decided to venture into the World Showcase. It was scarily busy. I couldn't believe the line ups for the food and wine booths! At this point, I was keeping my fingers crossed that it was simply the "weekend effect"- aka  higher local attendance. We made it as far as the Canada pavilion (the first one on the right), so we checked out O Canada. It's definitely better than it was, but it's still disappointing that to have certain parts of the country even mentioned, those places need to pay a ridiculous sum of money. We walked right past Le Cellier. I only even took a photo of it, in honour of a coworker, Joel, who used to work there. He gave me a hard time about not making reservations there.It was still too early for our Test Track FP return, so we checked out a few stores.The FP line up for Test Track still took 10 minutes, and we got to be cardholders again, yippy. While on the ride, there's a photo opportunity right before the barrier test. I couldn't remember exactly where it takes the picture. Tamara and I had planned to look freaked out about the upcoming impact. I was way too late and ended up not even looking forward for the photo. Oops! I loved the lighting just after you get off the ride!At this point, we were getting pretty tired of the crowds at Epcot, so we made our way to the International Gateway to catch a boat over to Hollywood Studios. Here's a glimpse of what we got to walk through, and that's not even the worst part!We happened to see Mary Poppins without a line in U.K, so we grabbed a quick photo.I also managed to take a few other photos of the area, while trying to avoid people. It's sometimes easier than one would think to avoid including people in the foreground.Unfortunately we arrived at the Studios just in time for the 3:00 parade. So we couldn't  really fully enter the park to get to the rides. So we watched the parade, and saw this awesome character from Monsters Inc.We checked out the Tower of Tower, got a drop sequence that had us looking out the window 4 times, then took a few photos.We were there for maybe an hour, then we caught a boat back to the Yacht and Beach Club to check out Beaches and Cream. I had no idea where it was located. Luckily Tamara had been there before and remembered, vaguely, where it was. I was a bit tired and sore at this point, and didn't have much faith in her sense of direction, but we made it there in good time. There weren't even any wrong turns along the way! We both ordered burgers with a side of fruit (instead of fries). We ordered a side of onion rings. Now, I was kind of used to the Disney pricing at this point, so for $5.99 I didn't expect that many onion rings. It was a huge plate with SO many on it, monstrous, really. You can't go to Beaches and Cream without ordering ice cream, so we had to leave some room for that. We split the Milky Way, which was really good. We really did eat way too much though.The original plan was to walk around the Boardwalk area, but at this point, were both just ready to fall over and sleep. I took a few photos as we headed to the boat stop.We took a boat back to the Studios and caught a bus there. We just missed one, but there was another in about 15 minutes.We got back to our room around 6:30, sat for a bit, then went to the hot tub. After we headed to the gift shop and bought a few souvenirs. Next we headed to the lounge for tea and a few sweets, then came back to the room for a bit of evening balcony sitting. Apparently we could not only hear some of the fireworks shows, but see parts of them too. We received our invitation for the next morning's Sunrise Safari and called it a reasonably early night.

Day 1: AKA October 14 AKA Travel Day
It certainly felt strange setting my alarm for 2:30AM that night before our departure. I've only gotten used to getting up at 5:00 or 5:30 every 3 weeks for the last few years. The original plan was to fly through Denver at a reasonable hour. However, Air Canada had different plans for us...Back in August, I received an email about an itinerary change. In the past, I've received this type of email for a 12 minute change. So I opened up the email, not expecting anything too drastic. The first thing I see is the time. We've now gone from leaving around 8:30, to leaving at 5:30. Umm, there was a reason I didn't choose that 5:30 flight, I didn't want to get up that early! There are worse things, it did mean we'd be arriving in Orlando 4 hours earlier (which is a good thing). Next I see we're flying through Toronto. At first I was a bit annoyed by this, I hate having to clear customs in other Canadian cities, but the last few times it hasn't been so bad. I definitely tried to think positively.It really all worked out nicely. The flights were all on time and very smooth. Because we flew all AC on the way there, we didn't have to pay for bags. We arrived in Orlando and at the resort in the daytime. However, there are downsides to leaving so early...like looking like this in the airport...I'm not sure why I made that face. Perhaps I was worried Tamara would be using the flash?So we arrived at MCO, and started the great search for the Magical Express bus stop. We failed to read the instructions on the pamphlet in their entirety, and MCO is designed with 2 sides that look pretty much the same. We stepped out onto the "A" side, only to learn that we needed to be on the "B" side. Why the airport doesn't allow you to get from A to B, we'll never know. One would think it'd be a giant circle, but it doesn't seem to be. We didn't really stick around to find out if you could actually get from A to B without backtracking. We found the bus stop and waited all of 5-10 minutes for the bus and after a non-eventful bus ride, we arrived at Animal Kingdom Lodge around 3:00.There were only 2 families getting off at Jambo House, and we were greeted by name by a member of the concierge staff! Although our room was ready, we decided to go through the whole check in experience in the lounge and get the mini tour. Our original dinner reservation was for 7:55 (as it was based on a 6:00 arrival time), so while we were in the lounge, we got that changed to 4:55. Our home for the next 10 days became room 4225. It was fairly close to the main entrance and had a great view of the Savannah.Here's a small glimpse into our room, I didn't end up taking very many pictures of the room. Tamara took this picture shortly after we arrived. She had bought a present for me to be waiting in the room upon arrival, a lion. The room was a decent size. The bathroom was pretty standard, there was a 2 sink vanity with additional shelf and magnification mirror. The beds are queen, with a faux mosquito screen, real head boards and frames and the softest sheets I've slept on at a hotel in ages. You know that awkward, fleecy blanket that all hotels have. Here, they place it between 2 flat sheets, so you never have to touch it! So great! I hate touching those fleecy blankets.Once we were mostly settled, we decided to go on a bit of an exploration of the resort. Here are plenty of photos of the ambiance. We started by checking out the immediate hallway. Every 5 rooms are so, there is a small viewing area of the Savannah. That's where all that sunshine is coming in from.I really love all the details that Disney puts into its resorts. After spending our time at a deluxe, I can see how it would be really difficult going back to a value, even possibly a moderate. There were daily activities planned, an inviting lobby, fire pits, and more.These shield like light fixtures are quite eye catching at the top of the lobby. There is also a pathway on the fifth floor that is designed to look like a suspended rope bridge. We walked across, it doesn't sway. That's probably a good thing though, as I could see children (and adults) abusing it.As we did our walkabout, we found the pool, 2 hot tubs, the restaurants and lots of animals. This is a bird that we came to call Zombie Duck. It was the only one of its kind.There was a lot of African artwork in various forms around the resort. One of the outdoor viewing areas had some animals carvings, like this giraffe.There were also wooden animals located all over. You'll be seeing a lot more giraffes, you might as well get used to it.Here's a tapestry that was hanging on the wall near the elevators on the 4th floor.There are all sorts of comfy, cozy seating arrangements everywhere. Here's a fun group of rocking chairs on the first floor.And it couldn't be a walk outdoors, without at least one photograph of a flower. I have no idea what type this is. It was finally time for our early dinner at Boma. We were very hungry at this point. Breakfast at 3:00, followed by a lunch of sorts at 9:30 and a few small snacks in the afternoon make for 2 very hungry people. We were given a pager, but were seated almost immediately after. It's a buffet, so I didn't bother taking pictures of our plates. They weren't the prettiest. We weren't exactly concerned with the aesthetics of plating. I did however take a picture of these lights directly above our table.We started our dinner with soup. I had the ham and split pea, with a small sampling of breads and hummus. Tamara had the peanut soup. For my next course, I took more small samplings of the salmon, a tiny falafel (which ended up being quite spicy), watercress salad, coconut rice, chakalaka and green curry. For the next course, I had loads of fruit, a watermelon rind salad, avocado with lime dressing salad, and the chicken (due to Tamara's recommendation). The final course was dessert. I had to try the much raved about Zebra Dome (it was really rich, I'm not sure how people can eat more than 1 in a sitting), a passionfruit dome, a cinnamon chocolate mousse, some sort of peanut butter dessert, and a banana bread pudding with vanilla cream and caramel. These desserts were all pretty much bite-size and a lot of them were somewhat gelatinous. I guess it's easier to serve those types of foods, since they can be consistently presented and keep well.Once we got back to the room, we did a bit more animal watching. We nicknamed more of the animals. These two became Tweedledee and Tweedledum. We didn't actually see much more of these two throughout the week. This Roan Antelope was deemed Ziggy. He found a fallen palm frawn, and ate the whole thing without dropping it. He was very close to the balcony, and you could really hear the crunching of the leaf. Here's a slight progression of the event.These animals are 2 of the 3 Red River Hogs. They are pretty hilarious to watch. When we first saw them, they were all running together in a large circuit around the Savannah. It was very entertaining. We would see more fun from them later in the week.That concludes our first day. By 7:30 we were pretty much spent. We settled into bed, watched The Big Bang Theory, then went to bed just after 8:30. The next day was to be a full day at Magic Kingdom!

Welcome!
Before I start my trip report, I figured I would welcome you to the new blog with this awesome felt zombie plush that I made. It was a team effort. I designed a pattern and got some assistance with the construction from my mom. Most people have felt, top stitching thread and stuffing just lying around in their houses right?? Just like most people have giant containers of at least 10kg of flour and sugar in their pantries... Yeah, we definitely have some interesting supplies that we consider standard around here.

Wallpaper Created By Me
Couple Hours to Create this.

Wallpaper Created By Me
15mins to create

Wallpaper Created By Me
Shop Wallpaper

Wallpaper Created By Me
Hour to create rougly

Wallpaper Created By Me
Shop Wallpaper

Soul pain

Ages before, I used to think that why there is no pain killer for the soul? But you see, I was wrong because I have found one for my soul..do you know how it works? Whenever my soul aches due to the heavy burden of worries or when words as sharp as knife lacerated my soul or when my soul hurt because my expectations didn't work or may be any other cause, that pain killer simply deadens my pain besides this it also heals my soul..this pain killer is so simple, just "a few drops of tears + a heartily prayer" it will surely cure all your pain.. as indeed, God is the best pain killer.


Broken girl

When it gets dark out
thence the silence shout,
when my thoughts gear back
inside me, with no doubt,
reside she, a broken girl.
with my broken heart light
how not to fright,O cruel night
i shake, i break, i wreck
everyday with me, when i fight.
Inside me, with no doubts
reside she, a broken girl


Pain: Soul pain
Pain: Soul pain: Ages before, I used to think that why there is no pain killer for the soul? But you see, I was wrong because I have found one for my soul..d...












This one is for Tom Racine... I know of your fondness for monkeys.  And yes, I know that's not how you spell that rhesus.




About Amber!

Thank you for visiting my Blog and taking the time out to learn more about the person behind the camera. I am a mom to two of the greatest joys and little blessings in my life, a wife to a wonderful husband, a sister, an aunt, a friend, an animal lover, nature lover, tree hugger, lover of chocolate, avid reader, adventure seeker and a photographer. It seems like photography has always been a constant in my life. My background has taken me on a great journey that I will never forget and has shaped the way I view things through the lens of my camera. I see potential photographs everywhere I turn. To be able to capture a moment in a way that speaks to your heart years later is beyond words to me.



My first taste for photography came early, when I was 7 or 8 years old. Later, in high school I picked up my first manual SLR film camera and started working PT at a camera store in my teens. Through talking with customers, the people I worked with and seeing wonderful photos being developed of peoples lives, the need to capture everything on film became a passion. It also sparked my urge to see the world. I went on to study Creative Photography at Humber College in Etobicoke. Before digital photography I learned on medium and large format film cameras. Many days were spent in the dark room trying to perfect each image long after it was taken. Initially reluctant to digital photography, with its rapid advancement and endless possibilities I have fallen in love.



Working in many different areas involving photography, from advertising, product photography, assisting, photographing weddings, school photography and web design, I stepped away at certain points to try other pursuits. My experiences have always brought me back to photography and the Arts.



Now married to that special someone with two of the most adorable girls ever I am pursuing what I love. I feel truly blessed to have this opportunity.







Contact Me
Please feel free to email or call me with any questions you may have and to book a date for a photo session, wedding or event. Please leave a number where I can reach you as I find it easier to chat in person to get a feel for what you want out of your session and to decide a date that works for both of us.


Thank you and I look forward to hearing from you soon!


amberleablack@hotmail.ca
(905) 666-1394

Or fill out my online contact form from my website by clicking here.


Thank you!


Halloween Family Traditions
One of the best things about having children is the excitement you get to relive with all the holidays. My husband and I have always enjoyed carving pumpkins together and handing out candy to the neighborhood children even before we had our own. To share this with curious eyes that seem to really thrive on these shared experiences together is wonderful.








Analisa Forex dengan Konsep Barsunjaya Trading Club (BTC)


Analisa Forex dengan Konsep BeaW


Analisa Forex dengan Konsep IndraFX Scalping


Analisa Forex dengan Konsep Kang Gun (KG)


Analisa Forex dengan Konsep Oma Amparos



Letter about homosexual pedophilia which its author is now trying to retractThe author, Adam Flanders, is a well-known homosexual activist in Maine who has been convicted of molesting a 14-year-old boy and is a registered sex offender.  Pic of him below:January 13, 2007To Whom It May Concern:My name is Adam Flanders. I am 20 years old and a current resident of Belfast, Maine. I am writing to you on behalf of my own concerns, as well as the concerns of other youth members and past members (who wish to remain anonymous) of the nonprofit organization, OUT! ... As I Want to Be located in Rockland, Maine. We wish to inform you of the negligence and abuse of OUT advisors and adult members. Let me briefly summarize the original purpose of this organization.OUT was thc rebirth of Outright, a Gay, Lesbian, Bisexual, Transgender, and Questioning non-profit organization for youth support, affirmation, and advocacy. When Outright Portland began demanding monetary compensation for their name (copyright), we were forced to alter ours. In addition, Rockland Outright fell into a difficult financial situation after the close of the Coastal AIDS Network (CAN), our primary source of funds. In addition, after several legal disputes, Portland Outright closed and has been renewed under the name, "PRYSM " 'The remaining members of Rockland Outright formed OUT, a small group consisting of several youth members and a few adult advisors. The policies and ground rules were lazily thrown together as a direct copycat of the former Portland Outright.OUT has since been mismanaged in many ways, but I (we) wish to inform you of the apparent negligence of the adult advisors and board members resulting in the emotional distress, abuse, and harm brought to youth members as young as fourteen years old. We can only speak from personal experience, and since I am the only individual willing to reveal my identity, I will begin with my personal experience of OUT and I will then summarize the complaints of those individuals who wish to remain anonymous.The majority of my time with OUT was spent at the (public) Lincoln Street Center (LSC) in Rockland, Maine once a week; every Friday night from 7 to 10 PM. However, the location has now moved to the private home of Ed and Virginia Slawson in Rockland, Maine and is now held 3 times a week. During my time at OUT meetings, my boyfriend [JL] and I would oftentimes sneak down to the restrooms in the lower part of the building to have sex, beginning when he was 14 and I was 18 -- mostly because his father disapproved of our relationship and these meetings were our only opportunity to do this. We did this on many occasions, and several of the other youth were aware of this fact and I wouldn't doubt that similar relations occurred between other members of OUT during our nightly meetings from 7 to 10 PM. I bet the advisors were aware of this, too.There was virtually little to no level of chaperoning, as adult advisors such as Phil Hansen and Lis Clark stressed the importance of a youth-led organization. I recall that we never really knew where maybe half the youth members were at any given time. At least two-thirds of our group smoked avidly and I witnessed adult advisors "bumming" cigarettes to youth members, some of them under the age of 18, and also offering a light to those who already had cigarettes. OUT has its own special smoke break, sometimes several a night in which most if not all of the members gathered outside the LSC to smoke, while the few non-smokers (myself included) stood and socialized.Several members. particularly two friends, Chris and Courtney (also youth members of the board) almost always showed up to our meetings high on marijuana and/or drunk on alcohol. Even worse, I witnessed several advisors drinking too much at such special events as OUT barbecues or other social events, with an especial focus on the night of the Question 1 victory: many of the adults were completely drunk, and our advisors, wanting to join the celebration, made the choice to simply bring along OUT youth members. The celebration was held at the home of Michael Mayo in Thomaston and I remember being touched and even groped by one of the older men there (who was clearly intoxicated), and I've heard that other youth had similar experiences. OUT advisors were also getting drunk and flirting with youth members. It made the entire situation very uncomfortable, especially at the "Rainbow Potluck," a weekly event inclusive of OUT members (still going on), attended primarily by gay and lesbian adults past the age of 40. I, myself and other youth were hit on by some of the adults at the Rainbow Potluck, and I cannot possibly imagine that our advisors were oblivious to this fact. In fact, it was occurring within our own organization.I once spent the night at one of the advisor's homes (Jeff), with another youth member who was also his nephew (Tyler) up from Florida. Tyler and I engaged in minor sexual contact beneath Jeff's loft that night, though I awoke to find the two of them showering together outside, completely in the nude. In my personal opinion, it is highly inappropriate for an adult advisor in his thirties to be showering nude with a youth member, age 14 at the time. The abuse did not stop there.Late in the Summer of 2006, the president of OUT, Phil Hansen was forcefully required to step down from his position. The other board members held a secret meeting against Phil, and it was reported to me that the reason being was because he had expressed some extreme forms of sexism by completely disregarding what the female members of the board had to say. One of the youth board members (Courtney) reported to me that she left crying due to a sexual remark and personal attack Phil had made against her during one of the board meetings, which have always been held in the private home of Ed and Virginia Slawson. I was not entirely surprised -- I recall Phil's stories he told to OUT members, affectionate stories from Greek literature about young boys having sexual relations with older men and open jokes about pedophilia at meetings in his own positive spin on things. This type of sexual abuse and verbal harassment has become a common part of OUT and its advisors and youth members -- almost like a mutual joke shared by everyone, but making many if not most of the youth very uncomfortable and distressed. It especially concerns me now because the meetings are being held 3 times a week in the private home of Ed and Virginia Slawson.To summarize some of the experiences of other youth members at OUT meetings and events, I will list the following for the purpose of simplicity, and then finish with a final, more personal note. *   [AC], a youth member, continually and repeatedly sexually harassing other youth members with advances and lies about his sexual relations, which according to him, were with every member of OUT. Even our coordinator (advisor) Lis Clark joked about how pathetic his constant lies were, and yet when myself and other youth members complained of the sexual harassment, Lis simply scoffed it off as immaturity. *   Another youth member, [JC] threatened suicide online and blamed it on myself, because he looked up to me and was jealous of my relationship with [JL]. The youth member Chris discovered [JC]'s online post while browsing a gay porn hookup site (www.gaywatch.com) during an OUT meeting. It caused a lot of distress to all of us, knowing he was out on the streets attempting suicide while we are at our meeting.*    Suicide threats and attempts have been a common part of our organization. We once invited a counselor to speak at one of our meetings, and 3 of the members just ran out of the building crying because they couldn't handle the situation. What most concerned me (and others) was the fact that none of the advisors made any attempt to catch up to them or follow up with them afterward. *   Several of our OUT meetings were spent writing letters to seemingly every democrat in Knox County. The youth members were made to write sympathetic letters at the heavy pressure from OUT's new president, J.P. Fecteau. I guess it worked because only a few months ago OUT received a $4,000 donation.As you can see, there has been a lot of abuse and negligence that has caused more harm to innocent youth than I could possibly begin to describe, and it continues today, and tomorrow, and the next.My own personal association with OUT came to a sudden and violent end when my boyfriend [JL] of 14 months broke up with me. I knew I could find him at the meeting, and when I physically latched onto him and refused to let go, OUT advisors were forced to restrain me. I had also brought a knife with me with plans to commit suicide and possibly attempt to murder [JL] along with myself. I was arrested on domestic assault charges. I think this is one example, among many I have already shown, that reveals the inherent dangers an organization like OUT creates for vulnerable youth. Even before that, there was a court-issued order against [JL] to not have any contact with me, and while Lis Clark (advisor) knew this, she still allowed us to sneak and see one another at OUT meetings, helping us lie to [JL]'s parents on several occasions. Advisors have been known to lie to parents. One 14 year old (Eric); his parents were under the impression he was attending an art class every Friday night.With my terminated membership, I've had time to reflect on the horrors of this organization and how much influence it has on the Rockland community and beyond -- especially impressionable youth -- youth who are encouraged by OUT advisors to disobey their parents and develop their GLB or T orientation. OUT hands out condoms and lubricant like candy. Being the web designer and owning exclusive rights to all photos and code, I, being permanently exiled from the organization I brought up, made the obvious, perhaps bitter choice to take the site with me. I threatened legal suit if they did not remove all web content from the URL www.outasiwanttobe.org.I am writing to you because I fear for the well-being of OUT youth members, especially now that meetings are being held 3 times more often and now in a private home rather than a public facility. It is my hope that the Bureau of Health will do everything in their power to seriously investigate this seemingly innocent organization that has such a dark past full of negligence, irresponsibility, sexual harassment, abuse, and ultimately emotional harm that could leave permanent scars in the lives of many vulnerable youth in Maine, or even destroy their lives completely. It makes me wonder, what horrendous acts will occur this week, or the next, or in the many months to come? More importantly, what will the BoH and the Rockland community do to make sure these destructive adult "advisors" are no longer allowed to have influence on these poor youth?I appreciate your time and hope you will consider my words seriously with the utmost concern for the welfare of Maine's children.Sincerely,[Signed]Adam FlandersSOURCE

An Atheist's Prayers
Please God, give me strength. 

"Being The Bigger Man"
No, this isn't one of THOSE articles.


Let me start off by saying people CAN change. The brain certainly isn't expected to behave the same way your entire life. It's why we have suicidals, goths and other rarities in life that make you wonder how on Earth they ended up with the lives they lead.

However, we as human beings are easily influenced on a subconscious level by our environments. For example, those of us who've frequently claimed to want to be nothing like our parents find ourselves sharing a lot of their personality traits regardless. Personality traits are NOT genetic, but having to spend most of your day around someone can certainly have adopting quirks of theirs. It's unavoidable.

So when we come to the mixed field of League of Legends, you need to either be a saint or a will of steel to not be influenced by the many less-than-happy players on the servers.

The reason I want to focus on this topic in particular is because someone close to me expressed her distaste towards my attitude towards the game in a period of illness. I'd apologize but I ended up with a fever and the inability to speak, neither really helping.

On that note, drugs are bad. They certainly help alleviate symptoms for a few hours though!

As a guy, I pride myself on having enough logic in my system to override any negative and illogical thoughts I may have towards my fellow League players. I accept the toxicity of other LoL players because the arguments they make do make sense from a certain point of view, even if they don't have the complete story.

Yes there are games where I don't build enough ability power at mid (I'm building to counter their mid *shrugs*).
My spells do no damage as Brand (no one considers the unseen 20% of their max health my spells do in passive damage).
I'm just bad at the game (I could be. There's always someone better.)

But there are days where I want to just vent back at these people. I may not do it, but my brain forced some sort of settlement on me. So this is the compromise my brain made:
Fairness.

What the word means is that I can accept losses with a smile so long as at the very least, everyone on my team knew what they were building. As long as everyone was building properly, the game itself comes down to the skill and teamwork each team displays.

Again, from my friend's point of view, the above condition my brain set is regarded as elitist because there might be people who don't know how to build in roles they've been forced into.

...This was the part where I actually got lost. The idea of League ... well, any game in particular to have fun, but isn't another primary goal to win the game? I mean you can actively do whatever unconventional means you want to try to win the game, but if you were playing in a method that would more or less guarantee your loss, there wouldn't really be a point in playing at all...

Games provide goals/endpoints. You can have fun playing them, but the idea is to try to achieve that endpoint. So, seeing a Blitzcrank copy the jungler's build and not the support's build irked me. Which I suppose also answers my friend's question of why I didn't try telling him what to build then. All I'd have to have said was 'copy the other team's support' but he was already doing that for their jungler.

I can try to understand people's questioning of my attitude towards people not knowing any better but the fact was that that player had more experience at the game than I did by a factor of 3. There is only so much I can smile through before needing a logical explanation as to how my nagging doesn't deserve some sort of response :S.


A mamoth task begins.-
I had spotted derelict New York and saw the shops which once stood on the site before the twin towers were built.Then I saw derelict London a fantastic photo journal of London.These ruins are at the moment when great change comes,it is a snapshot at the moment of change.I hope to photograph the places as they are now and then to go back and show the new building beside the derelict one.

East wall Rd
Church Ave East wall rd. area

Just getting started


Best Lipstick Tutorial Using Crayons - Do It Yourself - Ms Toi


The Barren
I don't know if you are anything like me,
But I search for you though you may not want to.
I search every corner waiting patiently only to see your face;
No glimpse but to hold.
For my eyes just to rest upon your countenance as the day I begun to love you.
Through my patience and the sweat which run down from my forehead,
I realize this is the hardest journey.
I have to step down and allow you to move further each day.
I can't find you.
I turn,
I wait...exhaling.
Chasing after the dust.




Why I'm Shaving All My Hair Off!- I like this


Presentation by Advocates









Presentation by Business 6











Presentation by DLSSR











Presentation by FACE











Presentation by Hybrid Communication









Quote of the Day

'Profanity is the inevitable linguistic crutch of the inarticulate motherfuckers!'


Camus

Don't walk behind me; I may not lead. Don't walk in front of me; I may not follow. Just walk beside me and be my friend.


An inspirational Quote 





Crying at the littlest of things
Because that's how pathetic she is

...I can't even finish that at all
Idk why I let shit affect me so easily
Maybe it's the fact that I had hopes
And it all came crashing down
I never learn my lesson
To never get your hopes up
Because you'll get hurt in the end

I'm sorry if I say I need you.

Okay updating time yay. Um I don't really remember what happened for the past few days but I think I went out with my family on Monday? We went to Kiddy's Palace and bought kiddy's stuff hahaha. Then went for a quick grocery shopping. OH AND THERE'S STILL DURIAN SHOP AND IT SELLS DURIAN ICE-CREAM for 3 bucks. It's pricey ah but still syiok pls.





On Tuesday, the alumni had a friendly match against the juniors. Some say we lost, some say it's a draw. But to me, we probably won. I mean, we have 6 people and they have plenty of people. Oh and I had a muscle cramp in the middle of the court which was funny hahahaha. Mr Leong came over and asked what happened to me and I told him and he said, "You forever having muscle cramps!" ah ok diam sudah.



We had lunch at yumen fyessssss and I finished my food in less than 15 minutes hashtag proud moment please. So yea that's pretty much it. I've been limping since yesterday and I really hope my leg would heal by Friday because I'm going out with Ali, Dewi and Irfan yaaaaAaAay and I wouldn't want to limp here and there because that's an ugly sight obviously.

The rest of the picturesSssS






Look at my small eyes and Jaslyn hehe and here we have Wulan yay

Oh and today was pretty much boring as hell. And tiring. And so painful because my head was throbbing AND STILL IS gosh I wanna shoot myself in the head :( :( :( Binged on my dinner l o l how fab



(I know I'm trying to cut down on my profanities but FUCK YES BITCHES I FINALLY GOT MY ZONE STICK BACK AND IT FEELS SO FUCKING NICE TO BE USING IT AGAIN ok bye)

Travel Bug
"Wanderlust" - the desire to travel






















Since i was a little girl all i have wanted to do more than anything else in the world is the travel and explore the wonderful place we live in. Being in the midst of my first term of year 12, with 2 weeks remaining, i find myself being preoccupied with the idea of wanting to pack up my life and go on a world trip. Anything from city adventures, road trips to overseas holidays all take my fancy! :) The thought of carrying nothing less than a camera and travel journal waking up in an unknown city makes me want to drop out of school now eep!

Post again soon my lovelies,

Emma xx
















CC Feels
Ung feeling na pati ung bangaw nastress na dahil sa clinical chem. Hahahaha xD

Planning the trip
 

The Mike Garner Band is:
Mike Garner (guitars, vocals, harmonica),
Warren Houston (percussion) and
Dave Robinson (bass).




On 4th October we fly out to Kathmandu, via Singapore, to appear at the Himalayan Blues Festival in Nepal.
http://www.himalayanblues.com

This blog is for family, friends and fans - and we will try and post frequently so you can follow the progress of the tour. Check back regularly after October 5th!

arrived in Kathmandu
It was a long flight, changing planes in Singapore. Somewhere along the way we lost about 8 hours in time zones, so we feel exhausted - it's mid afternoon here and late at night in Kiwi time!

We got a glimpse of Everest as the plane approached Kathmandu, there was some cloud cover, but Everest just showed above - seeming to be about the same altitude as the plane!


We are in a 5 star hotel with amazing handcrafted timber, bricks, I'll post some photos when I can - they are really looking after us. We have a day off tomorrow and our first gig on Wednesday.

Festival event - Patan Museum
Last night (Thursday) we did a set at one of the concert events of the festival. It was held at the Patan Museum, in Durbar Square, in Patan. Patan was once a separate kingdom, but is now a continuous part of the greater city of Kathmandu, a half hour taxi ride from our hotel.


Anyone who has been to Kathmandu will know Durbar Square. It is one of the must-see sights in the city. It consists of several temples, one for each of the country's main religions and a former royal palace, all of which have been restored. It's a World Heritage Site, justifiably so, since it is mostly about 500 years old, medieval in our terms. Foreigners have to buy a ticket to get in, but once we had dumped our gear at the venue, we were able to take a good look round, take photographs and so on. It's very touristy, of course, and a bit like comparable European sites, for example Pisa.

The organisation of the event was a little like the Himalayan version of "island time", so although we were down as the third act, after the gates were opened and the seats filled, when no one else had turned up, we went on first. Electricity is a bit erratic in Kathmandu, and he sound crew never did resolve stray earth hum and crackling that drifted around the big PA. In fact, in the middle of our third song, the power went done and we carried on playing acoustic, before it came up again a minute or so later! 

setting up the stage in the Patan Museum 

We had 30 minutes playing 6 songs. Warren's washboard went down a storm, as usual, and we finished off with the entire audience - mostly Nepali but with a sprinkling of expats - singing along to my song "Leaving Blues"!

By the time we got back to our hotel it was nearly midnight and we were hungry, but they have an all night staff and we could get a meal, so I finished off the day with a plate of 'mo mo', Nepali dumplings. Delicious, even if a bit ambitious in size!

#1 : Back to blog?
Came across someone's blog and actually thought for a while, "Should I go back to blogging again?"
In the end, created a draft one, simple one i suppose. Just for temporary sake?
Read back so much of my old blogs just now to realize how immature I used to be, AA and so on. Well, everyone grows and change isn't it? At least makes me feel that I much more mature now lol. ~.~ 
Sick for the whole morning, went K.O after eating sis's med. And now finally completed my UT3 notes.


????????????????????????

#6 : X







????



??????????????????




?????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????



???????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????? ......???????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????? ......??????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????? ......????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????? ......?????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????



2012 Honda Civic update Information

Honda Motor's flagship, the Civic remains a staple on U.S. roads since the early humble cars in 1979 and has now sold over 17 million of them. The 2012 Civic is able to maintain the pattern of solid sales strong. Texas dealership, Honda of Burleson is excited about the first version of ninth-generation Civic, which has all the famous features and equipment levels that make the Honda Civic one of the most enjoyable cars in history. The new ninth generation retains many similar popular eighth generation of visual cues. Despite the similar appearance, the new Civic is adjusted to less resistance than the 8 th generation, resulting in better MPG in all areas. Honda Civic Burleson has taken to the streets! Read on for highlights of all seat models and what we think are some of the best options. 
Depending on the characteristics, the cabins of any 2012 Civic will be held in its futuristic look, comparable to the latest generations feel. One of the most striking visual effects will be double covered dashboard, with an analog tachometer in the "traditional" point behind the wheel and a digital speedometer on top. If so, the steering wheel also has audio and numerous control buttons Bluetooth. The navigation system, if equipped, is located within the console directly to the driver's right to use simple, while the car is stopped. The driver also has a variety of high-tech gadgets at their disposal can not be beaten by cars in the class of vehicles. 


We like to point to the new HF model as the best value for model year 2012. Powered by a 1. 8 liters i-VTEC configured to achieve 41mpg on the highway, the 2012 Series HF is one of the best out of his car found money in the market when it comes to MPG. The HF is a gas only car, unlike a hybrid car. For those looking for a hybrid vehicle, the Civic is ready for them too. The Honda Civic Hybrid is the power above all conscious of them all, which is estimated to average 44mpg. The hybrid still uses gasoline, but also uses the power of his own creation to control the use of gasoline. Both models feature Honda Eco Assist, an information system designed to create a style of driving more fuel efficient. A study by Honda demonstrated a fuel economy improvement of 10% when the Eco Assist drivers are caused by drivers making a habit of driving more efficient fuels. Anyone who tries to save money is recognized that HF ??and hybrid models to be a great investment. Also taking into account the great story of the Civic reliability and high resale value, you can definitely consider a purchase safe and produce a return of the incredible investment 


For those looking for speed and efficiency, the Honda Civic Si is again a great option. If the engine is upgraded to 200 horsepower pumping from its power-packed 2.4-liter i-VTEC. Lovers have asked for more torque, and they will love the torque increases by 22% from the 2011 model, and now is 170 lb-ft of torque. Coupled with a 6-speed transmission, the Civic Si can reach 31 miles per gallon on the highway. Additional features include sport pedals, a leather steering wheel attached, and great looking 17inch alloy wheels. If all the packet is destined to delight the monster zoom. 


The 2012 Civic may be available in the coupe normal and tour packages. You will find plenty of options common to any model. Multiple front and side airbags are standard on all models to ensure the safety of all passengers. The 2012 Honda Civic with Vehicle Stability Assist Honda Civic keep rolling in extreme situations. The Civic is also very environmentally conscious, as a Partial Zero-Emission Vehicle 


If you are looking even more elegant sweets, the Civic is jam packed with them if you wish. A system of 360 watts of audio can be added, which includes seven speakers with a subwoofer. Bluetooth and navigation system can be added for those who want to make your drive a little less complicated. The Honda i-intuitive screen MID can be added to the public for the first time too. The i-MID is the basis of the data was to know about your Civic. Some of the features include the estimated miles per gallon, the scope and navigation information. The whole system is customizable, from colors to the end until the addition of your own wallpaper. 


We love the 2012 Honda Civic because it can be fully customized to your wishes and desires. From class-leading mpg ratings all the way to a 6-speed sports car, the Civic has something for everyone. Now is a good time to build the Civic of your dreams! 



2.2% A Major Crisis Is Not ...
TRUTH ABOUT THE SEQUESTER The president depends on the fact that he thinks all Americans are stupid and that he can fool them all.  It's not true and we should show him that by taking the sequester and shoving where his head is most of the time.

666 or Just Another Bizarre Idea?


A Graceful Interlude Celebrating A Great Mustard


A Little Perspective On The Budget Discourse


The Horror Section Master List
This is the list of VHS movies that used to reside at my video store's horror section, when I worked there from 1990-1994. I have provided links to the ones I have posted so far, but am still looking for original VHS versions for many of these. If you are in possession of any of these, please feel free to snap some pics and send them to me at thehorrorsection@gmail.com and I will be sure to post them with much appreciation.976-EVIL2000 ManiacsAlchemist, TheAlice Sweet AliceAlienAlien ContaminationAlligatorAlone In The DarkAltered StatesAmerican GothicAmerican Werewolf In London, AnAmityville Horror, TheAmityville Horror 2, TheAmityville Horror 3-D, TheAmityville Horror 4, TheAndy Warhol's DraculaAngel HeartAnguishApril Fool's DayArachnophobiaArcadeArmy Of DarknessAsphyx, TheBabysitter, TheBad ChannelsBad DreamsBasket CaseBasket Case 2Basket Case 3Beast Of The Yellow NightBeast Within, TheBeing, TheBelievers, TheBenBeyond DarknessBeyond The DoorBeyond The Door 2Bigfoot ('69)BiohazardBird With The Crystal Plumage, TheBirds, TheBlack ChristmasBlack RosesBlob, The ('58)Blob, The ('88)Blood FeastBlood LinkBlood SistersBloody BirthdayBlue SunshineBody BagsBody PartsBody ShopBoogeyman, The ('80)Borrower, TheBrain DamageBrain Dead ('90)Bram Stoker's DraculaBride Of Re-animator, TheBrimstone & TreacleBrood, TheBuried AliveBurning, TheBurnt OfferingsCameron's ClosetCandymanCannibal GirlsCarnosaurCarrieCast A Deadly SpellCat People ('82)Cat's EyeChangeling, TheCheerleader CampChildren Of The Corn, TheChildren Of The Corn 2, TheChildren Shouldn't Play With Dead ThingsChild's PlayChild's Play 2Child's Play 3ChillersChopping MallChristineChristmas EvilC.H.U.D.C.H.U.D. 2Church, TheClass of Nuk'em High, TheClown Murders, TheColor Me Blood RedCompany Of Wolves, TheCrawlspaceCrazies, TheCreatureCreepersCreepozoidsCreepshowCreepshow 2CrittersCritters 2Critters 3Critters 4CronosCujoCurse, TheCurse 2, TheCurse 3, TheCurtainsCutting ClassDaddy's Deadly DarlingDark Half, TheDark, TheDawn Of The DeadDay Of The AnimalsDead AliveDead & BuriedDead CalmDead End Drive-InDead HeatDead KidsDead Pit, TheDead RingersDead Zone, TheDeadly BlessingDeadly EyesDeadly FriendDeadly IntruderDeadtime StoriesDeath ShipDeath TrapDeep Star SixDeep, TheDef By TemptationDementedDementia 13Demon SeedDemon WindDemoniacDemonic ToysDemonsDemons 2Devil's Rain, TheDoctor MordridDollmanDollman vs. Demonic ToysDollsDolly DearestDoom AsylumDopplegangerDorm That Dripped Blood, TheDr. GigglesDracula (animated)DreamscapeDust DevilEaten AliveElvesEntity, TheEraserheadEvil Dead, TheEvil Dead 2EvilspeakExorcist, TheExorcist II, TheExorcist III, TheEyes On FireFade To BlackFear No EvilFiend, TheFirestarterFirst Power, TheFlatlinersFlowers In The AtticFly, TheFly II, TheFog, TheFood Of The Gods, TheFood Of The Gods II, TheFrankenstein '80Frankenstein UnboundFreddy's DeadFrenzyFriday The 13thFriday The 13th Part 2Friday The 13th Part 3Friday The 13th Part 4Friday The 13th Part 5Friday The 13th Part 6Friday The 13th Part 7Friday The 13th Part 8Fright NightFright Night 2FrogsFrom BeyondFull EclipseFunhouseFuture KillGalaxy Of TerrorGate, TheGates Of Hell, TheGhost In The MachineGhost StoryGhouliesGhoulies IIGirls Nite OutGirlyGolden YearsGood Son, TheGothicGraveyard ShiftGremlinsGremlins 2Grim Prairie TalesGrotesqueGuardian, TheHalloweenHalloween 2Halloween IIIHalloween 4Halloween 5Hand, TheHe Knows You're AloneHear No EvilHell NightHellgateHellraiserHellraiser IIHellraiser IIIHidden, TheHighway To HellHills Have Eyes, TheHills Have Eyes 2, TheHitcher, TheHoneymoonHorrible HorrorHorror Show, TheHouseHouse IIHouse On Sorority Row, TheHowling, TheHowling II, TheHowling III, TheHowling IV, TheHumongousHumanoids From The DeepHunger, TheI Dismember MamaIn The Shadow Of KilimanjaroIncubus, TheInitiation, TheInnocent BloodIntruder Within, TheInvaders From MarsInvasion Of The Body Snatchers, The ('56)Invasion Of The Body Snatchers, The ('78)Island, TheItIt's AliveJack Be NimbleJack's BackJason Goes To HellJawsJaws 2Jaws 3DJaws 4Jennifer 8Keep, TheKiller Klowns From Outer SpaceKiller PartyKiller WorkoutKindred, TheKingdom Of The Spiders, TheLady in WhiteLair Of The White Worm, TheLawnmower Man, TheLegend of Hell House, TheLeprechaunLeprechaun 2LeviathanLifeforceLinkLisaLost Boys, TheLurkersMad Butcher, TheMadhouse MansionMadmanMagicManiac CopManiac Cop 2Man's Best FriendMartinMasque Of The Red Death, The ('89)Maximum OverdriveMeridianMetamorphosisMikeyMill Of The Stone Women, TheMiseryMr. FrostMongrelMonkey ShinesMonster In The ClosetMonster SquadMortuaryMother's DayMountaintop Motel MassacreMutantMute WitnessMutilator, TheMy Bloody ValentineNail Gun Massacre, TheNaked LunchNear DarkNeedful ThingsNest, TheNesting, TheNetherworldNew Year's EvilNight Of The CreepsNight Of The Living Dead ('68)Night Of The Living Dead ('90)Night Of The StranglerNight Warning NightbreedNightmare On Elm Street, ANightmare On Elm Street 2, ANightmare On Elm Street 3, ANightmare On Elm Street 4, ANightmare On Elm Street 5, ANightmaresNightmare WeekendNightwishNomadsOasis Of The ZombiesOf Unknown OriginOffspring, TheOmen, TheOmen II, TheOmen III, TheOracle, TheOrcaPaperhouseParasiteParentsPeople Under The Stairs, ThePet SemataryPet Sematary 2Phantasm IIPhantom Of The Opera, The ('89)Phantom Of The Paradise, ThePhase IVPiecesPinPirahnaPirahna II: The SpawningPit, ThePit & The Pendulum, The ('91)Planet Of The VampiresPlayroomPledge NightPoltergeistPoltergeist IIPoltergeist IIIPopcornPossessed, ThePrince Of DarknessPrisonProm NightProm Night IIProm Night IIIProphecy ('79)Prowler, ThePsychoPsycho IIPsycho IIIPsycho IVPsychos In LovePulse ('88)PumpkinheadPuppet MasterPuppet Master IIPuppet Master IIIPuppet Master 4Puppet Master 5Pyx, TheQ: The Winged SerpentRabidRampageRawhead RexRazorbackReanimatorRedeemer, TheRedneck ZombiesReincarnation Of Peter Proud, TheRejuvenator, TheRepossessedReturn Of The Alien's Deadly SpawnReturn Of The Living Dead, TheReturn Of The Living Dead 2, TheReturn Of The Living Dead 3, TheReturn To Boggy CreekReturn To Salem's LotReturn To Horror HighRevenge Of The DeadRipper, TheRock n' Roll NightmareRocky Horror Picture ShowRosemary's BabySalem's LotSaturday The 14thSavage WeekendScalpsScannersScanners 2Scanners 3SchzoidScream ('81)ScreamersScreamtimeSeedpeopleSender, TheSerpent & The Rainbow, TheServants Of Twilight, TheSeventh Sign, TheSevered TiesShadowzoneShining, TheShiversShock TreatmentShockerShockwavesSilent Night, Deadly Night 2Silent Night, Deadly Night 4Silver BulletSkid Row Slasher Meets The Hollywood Strangler, TheSlaughter HighSlaughter Of The InnocentsSlaughterhouseSlaughterhouse RockSleepaway CampSleeping Car, TheSleepwalkersSlithisSlugsSlumber Party Massacre, TheSlumber Party Massacre 2, TheSole SurvivorSomething Wicked This Way ComesSometimes They Come BackSorority House MassacreSoultakerSpasmsSpellbinderSpiderbabySplatter UniversitySplit SecondSquirmStagefrightStand, TheStepfather, TheStepfather 2, TheStephen King's Night Shift CollectionStrange BehaviourStudent BodiesStuff, TheSubspeciesSubspecies IISubspecies IIISummer Camp NightmareSuicide CultSupernaturals, TheSuperstitionSurf Nazis Must DieSuspiriaSwamp ThingSyngenorTales From The Crypt ('72)Tales From The DarksideTerminal ChoiceTerror At The Red Wolf InnTerror In The AislesTerror In The Haunted HouseTerror, TheTerror In The SwampTerror TrainTerrorvisionTexas Chainsaw Massacre, TheTexas Chainsaw Massacre 2, TheTexas Chainsaw Massacre 3, TheThey ('74)They Came From WithinThey LiveThing, TheThree On A Meathook Thrill KillersTicksTo The Devil, A DaughterTommyknockers, TheToolbox Murders, TheTorture Chamber Of Dr. Sadism, TheTown That Dreaded Sundown, TheToxic Avenger, TheToxic Avenger II, TheToxic Avenger III, TheTransmutationsTraumaTremorsTrick Or TreatTrick Or TreatsTrilogy Of TerrorTrollTruth Or DareTwice DeadTwilight Zone, TheTwo Evil EyesUnnamable, TheUnholy, TheUp From The DepthsVagrant, TheVampVampire's KissVampyresVenom ('81)Victims!Video Dead, TheVideodromeVirgin Among The Living DeadVisiting HoursVisitor, The ('79)WWarlockWarlock 2Warning SignWatcher In The Woods, TheWatchers, TheWatchers II, TheWaxworkWaxwork IIWhispersWild BeastsWillardWitchboardWitchboard 2WitchcraftWitchcraft VWitcheryWolfenWormeaters, TheWraith, TheXtroXtro 2ZombieZombie LakeZombie Nightmare

DVD Wolf Archive.
From about 2001 to 2007, I wrote horror reviews for a site called DVDWolf.com. After the webmaster moved onto other pursuits, I decided to start up The Horror Section. Here is the index for all my reviews on DVDWolf.com.28 Weeks LaterAbandoned, TheAmerican Nightmare, TheBelowBrotherhood Of The Wolf, TheBubba Ho-tepBullet BalletCabin FeverDark RideDarknessDarkness FallsDawn Of The Dead (1978)Dawn Of The Dead (2004)Death TunnelDescent, TheDevil's Backbone, TheDonnie DarkoDreamcatcherDrive-ThruEvil Dead (DVD)Eye, TheFeardotcomFollowingFrailtyFreddy Vs. JasonFrom Hell (DVD)Ghost ShipGinger Snaps IIGothikaGreen River KillerHamiltons, TheHard CandyHatred Of A MinuteHaunted ForestHaute TensionHole, TheHouse of 1000 CorpsesJason X (DVD)Jeepers CreepersJu-on (The Grudge)Mothman Prophecies, TheMulholland DriveMurder By NumbersPulse (2001)Resident EvilRing, The (2002)Rise Of The DeadRise: Blood HunterSawSecret WindowSeries 7Session 9 (DVD)SignsSilent HillSleepless (Non ho sonno)TamaraTheyThree ExtremesTrouble Every DayTwin Peaks: Fire Walk With MeUndeadUnderworldWillard (2003)Wrong TurnZodiac

Building Learning Objects
This project is to investigate and develop a series of Learning Objects (a unit of educational content delivered via the internet), using eith the IMS Content Packaging or the SCORM (Sharable Content Objective Reference Model) standard. As well as having the standard learning object parameters, the learning objects for this project will be aware of how learning style can effect presentation means.

The Last Train




I waited at the station,
carrying a briefcase of your letters.

In the Middle-Of and the Waiting-Place,
I made myself a home,

I slept on benches and beneath umbrellas,
and in the crooks of strangers' arms,

inside coffee cups and magazine racks,
I built myself a room.

The trains go past, you never come,
the weather turns more cold;
in winter when the trains have stopped,
your letters keep me warm.

The years go by, the seasons pass,
the people walk on by.

After the war, before the spring
the station closes down,
the rusting tracks are overgrown,
birds nestle in my hair.

An old woman now,
I bow my head,
my vision far too blurry

the last train will come,
to take me home,

and the waiting will be
done.









(photo: @vakeel_saheba)









Momentary Blindness





The momentary blindness in the transition of stepping from darkness to light is the exact moment when the soul blinks



My Soul







My soul is a river at sunset that fills with lights as it moves toward an open sky that catches it,

it is as still as the surface of mirrors to the heavens,


it walks through cities and stories and seas and forests,

it falters between darkness and light

and the colours,

between



(Photo: Raheel Khursheed @RaheelK)




16 great ideas for paksitani entrepreneurs
There is enough scope for entrepreneurship in worst situationsToday I am going to write about some great business ideas.Biogas plantAs there is going shortage of natural gas and other energy resources, starting a biogas business can be very successful. Input is animal manure that is easily available. Data centreAs the cost of maintaining the data is increasing because of electricity shortage, more and more companies want data center to manage their data. Although data center industry is in its initial stages but there is huge opportunity for entrepreneurs.Dairy farmingAlthough Pakistan is one of the largest milk producing country in the world but still productivity per animal is low as compared to developed countries standards. By simple techniques productivity of animals can be enhanced. There is huge gap between milk produced per cow in United States and milk produced per cow in Pakistan. In United States on average a cow produces 9 liters of milk per day whereas in Pakistan average milk production per cow per day stands at 1 liter per day. So this indicates huge opportunity for Pakistani agricultural entrepreneurs.Halal foodThere is dazzling opportunity for Pakistani entrepreneurs in this field. Halal food market globally is estimated to be 3 trillion us dollars per annum. Pakistan can easily get 10 % share of this global market which amounts to 300 billion us dollars. Poultry industry is growing. Entrepreneurs only need to get halal certificate. Many seminars are being done these days on halal food business.Wind turbinesAs country is facing acute shortage of electricity and Pakistan has plenty of sights where wind farms can be set up for production of electricity. There will be going demand for wind turbines in near future and production of wind turbines can be very lucrative.Internet businessDay by day internet population is growing in Pakistan. Companies are allocating more of there budget to online advertising. Internet marketing is going to be in great demand within few years.Wind energyBy ever increasing demand of electricity alternate energy sources have become important. Cheap electricity can be generated by establishing wind farms.Second hand mobiles and automobilesBusiness can be built around second hand cars and mobiles. Guarantee about quality needs to be given. With rising cases of theft and robbery guarantee and assurance that the product is not robbed one can be compelling for the customer. Islamic fashion designingPakistani fashion designers till now have remained successful not only inside Pakistan but also abroad. Pakistan can tap into 80 billion us dollars Islamic fashion market.Sunglasses linePakistani fashion designer have Paid attention to footwear and clothes but very little attention has been paid to sunglasses. Sunglasses line can be very successful. It can be started with small investment.Traditional food restaurantWith decreasing availability of natural gas in homes, restaurant business will thrive. More and more ladies are going to be working in offices so demand for ready made food will increase.Medical insuranceMedical treatment has become costly. To provide medical facilities to Pakistani public medical insurance can be very good business. Middle class can pay for medical insurance.Hospital chainPrivate hospitals provide medical services but are very expensive. If a private hospital chain can be set up offering membership for a subscription fee. Many people will pay for it.Wood for construction As Pakistan has extreme climate in many regions. In order to keep houses cool in summers and warm in winter Pakistani people make huge expenditure. If wood is used in construction a considerable amount of energy can be saved. As wood is not a good conductor, houses built using wood can save huge expenditure on energy. Broadband resellerBroadband internet is not available to many remote areas. Reselling broadband areas can be a good idea. SupermarketsWe do not have enough super markets. Discount markets especially in rural areas can be successful, provided a mechanism for payment can be developed for rural people, as they can pay in harvest only.Creative businesses Gone are the days when natural resources are the main determined of wealth production. Now the real determined of wealth of countries and individuals is creativity. We see j. k. Rowling making millions from writing. Films and TV productions have become a huge industry. Pakistan has many production houses running successfully. But still Pakistan is not producing enough films dramas. Starting a production house can be challenging but it can be very successful in these days of electronic media

Asset Markets - Long-Term Impact of the Crisis
Real Estate Investment - No Longer a One Way Bet.
http://www.nytimes.com/2010/08/23/business/economy/23decline.html

Small Investors Avoid Stocks
http://www.nytimes.com/2010/08/22/business/22invest.html



Also, Debt Reduction Among US Households
http://www.nytimes.com/2010/08/22/business/22gret.html

Barro on Unemployment Insurance
Harvard economist, Robert Barro, notes in his WSJ op-ed
(http://online.wsj.com/article/SB10001424052748703959704575454431457720188.html):
"In a recession, it is more likely that individual unemployment reflects weak  economic conditions, rather than individual decisions to choose leisure over  work. Therefore, it is reasonable during a recession to adopt a more generous  unemployment-insurance program. In the past, this change entailed extensions to  perhaps 39 weeks of eligibility from 26 weeks, though sometimes a bit more and  typically conditioned on the employment situation in a person's state of  residence. However, we have never experienced anything close to the blanket  extension of eligibility to nearly two years. We have shifted toward a welfare  program that resembles those in many Western European countries".

These previous posts also deal with the issue of unemployment insurance

Book Recommendations
Book Recommendations:Topic - Financial CrisisRestoring Financial Stability: How to Repair a Failed System (Wiley Finance) - by New York University Stern School of Business, (Editors: Viral Acharya, and Matthew Richardson)Too Big to Fail: The Inside Story of How Wall Street and Washington Fought to Save the Financial System--and Themselves by Andrew Ross SorkinThe Big Short: Inside the Doomsday Machine by Michael LewisFinancial Fiasco: How America's Infatuation with Home Ownership and Easy Money Created the Economic Crisis by Johan NorbergGetting Off Track: How Government Actions and Interventions Caused, Prolonged, and Worsened the Financial Crisis (Hoover Institution Press Publication) by John B. TaylorIn FED We Trust: Ben Bernanke's War on the Great Panic by David WesselThe Holy Grail of Macroeconomics: Lessons from Japans Great Recession by Richard Koo
Topic - Economic History & ThoughtLords of Finance: The Bankers Who Broke the World by Liaquat AhamedThis Time Is Different: Eight Centuries of Financial Folly by Carmen Reinhart and Kenneth RogoffThe Myth of the Rational Market: A History of Risk, Reward, and Delusion on Wall Street by Justin FoxHow Markets Fail: The Logic of Economic Calamities by John CassidyProphet of Innovation: Joseph Schumpeter and Creative Destruction by Thomas K. McCrawThe Great Inflation and Its Aftermath: The Past and Future of American Affluence by Robert J. Samuelson
Topic - International AffairsThe Icarus Syndrome by Peter BeinartAsian Juggernaut by Brahma ChellaneyThe New Asian Hemisphere by Kishore Mahbubani

Cold Days and the Levee Christ(No More Mr. Precious)
Love is stronger than witchcraft.

          ---Robert Pollard



 I am standing back from my latest realist painting titled--- "The Levee Christ".

     The mise-en-scene:  A black Christ bound to the slope of a New Orleans' levee
as the waters rise. In the foreground a black woman mourns and a white man runs
off with a bag. The skies are gray and a loan dove is floating above the Christ's 
head.  
     It is cold today. Not a blanket of cloud in the sky. The sun's gold fools me.

     I am against all forms of Punitive Mandatory Minimums. From Draconian Drug 
Laws to the new, reactionary, Jessica's Laws against Child Sex offenders. What if
a child who is molested grows up, from the trauma of their early experience, to molest
a child? Should he or she be punished again? With 25 years to life? And I am sick of 
a media elite which states that pedophilia is incurable. Ina  society that offers no
treatment and lifelong Pariah-dom to any child sex offender and yet turns around
and glorifies the appeal of the sexuality of youthfulness, it reeks of hypocrisy.
They ask a sex offender who has to register--can't find a job and known to all as
a "freak" or "monster" to get a job--and gain an income. After Incarceration, no
type of treatment and then probation--to pay off punitive damages and court fees--
the offender has no economic ability to seek help. So this is the ideal situation where
Sexual Offenders re-offend just to go back to prison where other pariahs wait to 
befriend them.....Can anyone seriously maintain that the present system even tries 
to rehabilitate Pedophiles and Sex Offenders? It's amazing that more don't re-offend.
There should be more of a concerted effort to treat Pedophiles--It is a mental illness.
It is only exacerbated by pariah-dom and economic want.

     I would also like to applaud Mel for her admirable stand for Muslims on the Cartoons
issue.
     I am through being precious. Love is serious. 



I Have Returned With Skyclad Eyes and Dewed Earth Kisses
Jesus Christ was the greatest Suicide Bomb.     I am back. Have I been missed? I believe so. The ayes have it. The stars containedin their kaleidal blue.  A tidal stare upwards.     Let me kiss this page and plant an idyll. Moist, dew kissed, fields to run across.The Tree's lantern led me here.  The bomb will not be as bad as the fallout.         A lost dog never barks. Why? Back to the Baskets. 

To Mother(A Birthday Poem)

To M.K.S.




Metre of my heart, measure of my breath
Deep as the bottomless well of a Star's death.
Mother, 'til God snuffs the last day's light,
Your metre, your breath, shall outlast night.


No Sun can eclipse the hushed gold of your love.
No coal fire can rise and choke hearths above.
The clear of your eyes, the unspoken, tender, Law,
Melts clouds and gilds days in placid awe. 











Worldliness, Idolatry Be Damned
Sic vos, non vobis mellificatis, apes.
                 Virgil.


     As the trough chewing Idolaters watch ersatz sirens cry out songs
worse than any audible shipwreck, my eyes scan the world. What do I see?

     I see anti-Islamism in so many forms. The United Arab Emirates has
a company that wishes to purchase the rights to US ports and their security.
Reactionaries cry out, "Three of the 9-11 hi-jackers were citizens of the U.A.E.,
and they supported the Taliban!". What they forget is that the United States
Congress voted a monetary reward for The Taliban in its efforts to thwart
Heroin production by destroying the cultivation of certain plants. It earmarked
$40 million for the Taliban. Far more than the U.A.E. ever gave them. Also, 
United States pilot schools trained the 9-11 hi-jackers and there are far more
terrorists living in the United Kingdom and other European nations--would
there be as much outcry if the UK wanted to buy some ports? The U.A.E. is a 
valuable, moderate, ally in the Middle East. To alienate them out of reactionary
bigotry and "playing to those who hate the ragheads" political point scoring would
be tragic. Playing to the morons is for television.

     Another area is in Nuclear Arms proliferation. A peaceful, threatened, nation, Iran,
wishes to protect itself from threats by the United States(Axis of Evil) and Israel(which has
nukes). Iran has not invaded six nations like the USA has in the past 20 years(Panama,
Kuwait, Yugoslavia, The Sudan, Afghanistan and Iraq). Nor has it shot down a passenger
airliner over international waters killing over 350 people(The US Air Force shot down an 
Iranian Airline Plane over the Persian Gulf). It has also not illegally invaded three neighboring
states, like Israel, and violated international laws and treaties by subjecting Palestinians
to inhuman conditions and destroying their homesteads with US made jets, helicopters, tanks
and bulldozers. BUT-- They are Muslims! The only reason to mistrust them! Somehow other,
more warlike, states are allowed to have Nukes but a threatened state is not allowed! Precious!
After Bush's post 9-11 State of the Union and the intense US Military build up in the Middle East
--and an avowed "first strike pre-emptive defense policy"--Iran has a right to fear the new US
"regime change" agenda.  It is reasonable for the leadership of Iran to attain Nuclear Weaponry
to protect their sovereignty.

     Turning back towards home......My mother turns -- next week. Bless her. Gambling keeps her
young.

     I feel the world coming to me. It greets me every morning with a cheerful smile.  Every ray of the
sun touches me with the loving warmth of an erect prick. And the love spills over me from the heavens--
an ejaculation of gold light.
     I am this World. Idol of it all. The Name on the cover of this Book. Idolatry be damned!

Fugue Machinery
Ce qui jamais ne meurt, ce qui jamais ne change,L'entourait."              ------  "The Trumpet of Judgement", Victor Hugo.     Eternal dust of window sills never peered from     You,  here,  wept dry tears of no reflection      Soundless sunny spring days      Tinder warmth in light       You, then,  shivered in shade       Asking for a kiss        Words without  place---        Empty as parking lots        At four A.M.        Euclid wept for the sine of        our embrace           never a circle so square         The moon sings            silvery paeans         Virginal as fall's first snow                     We, so nice to say, never                        became one                 Then              Here words                         cover                             what's lost                  The song                     Knots us                  in metrical                           lacing                      Now we are                          mystery--                     modes of                                 spacing   

2012 Wattpad Reading Challenge





Hosted by Divergent Gryffindor

Challenge: 2012 Half a Year Wattpad Reading Challenge

Goal: To read books from Wattpad

Level: Level I(Novice) Read 10 Wattpad Books

Excellent Christmas Day!
Excellent Christmas Day!
Chapter 1



It was Christmas Eve and my parents were at New York, there was this babysitter looking after me, I had no idea who she was. "This is going to be the worst Christmas ever!" I said in my head. The babysitter gave me a snow globe. "Shake it, and see where it takes you." The babysitter told me. I was trying to work out what it meant but it was no use I'm not clever enough. I shook the snow globe and a white bang came out of nowhere!



Chapter 2 coming soon!


Excellent Christmas Day!
Chapter 2

It was snowing and there was houses, I was in a circular globe. "Welcome to Santa's village!" called a voice. 
"Hello," my voice echoed. I looked down but who was this man in a green and red suit? I knelt down and it was an elf. "Follow me and I'll show you to the letter room." The elf explained. Out of the corner of my eye a very large man appeared. He had a fluffy, white candy flossed beard and a bright velvet suit. I turned around. "Look it's.....



Chapter 3 coming soon!

Please comment


Chapter 3 coming soon! Please comment

The Big Day
Today is my birthday... my 41st birthday, in fact. I have been thinking of starting a blog for about a year now... and today just seemed like the right day to start. I sort of feel like today I'm biting the bullet and just jumping in... "going for it" so to speak. But really, since I have been toying with the blogging idea for a year it is hard to label this move as spontaneous! I guess it's my version of spontaneity. Last year when I turned forty I had high hopes that simply by virtue of this milestone a lot of things would fall into place.  That is not really the way it went. It was actually  a difficult year.Bottom line is... I want to start a blog. I want to journal some of my thoughts. I want to record memories of my kids. But most of all I want to figure out who I am. Maybe next year when I turn 42 I will be a bit closer to having that figured out.So I gave myself a blog for my birthday! How cool is that? Oooooo, what will I do next? Join Facebook? :)

Back to blogging world
Well hope to be regular this time onwards...Tia

Happiness
Is happiness just an elusive commodity for people with all the luxuries in life or is it just the state of mind which is driven by moods , situations, people?Well it can be very subjective and opinionated...:-)Putting across my views...I believe the onus lies on us..whether we choose to be or not to be..Its very easy to write but when it comes to implementation phase..it can be difficultI can speak from my experience that happiness just helps you achieve seemingly difficult things with great ease...Happiness is a state of bliss which spreads around positive aura around us and our surroundings..I believe that the road with thorns pricks you less if you have a smile within you....:-)Will be continued..gotta go...Smiles,Tia

Lonely Planet..
Lonely planet looks enticing from afar yet when you land it can be pretty disturbing...Tia

Love is patient..
Love is patient and kind; love does not envy or boast; it is not arrogant or rude. It does not insist on its own way; it is not irritable or resentful; it does not rejoice at wrongdoing, but rejoices with the truth. Love bears all things, believes all things, hopes all things, endures all things. 8Love never ends. As for prophecies, they will pass away; as for tongues, they will cease; as for knowledge, it will pass away.

Love..
Love is like sand the more you try to catch it, the more it slips out of your hand...Tia..

2nd Annual Fall Festival hosted at Weapons Training Battalion - Marines.mil (press release)
<br /><a href="http://news.google.com/news/url?sa=t&fd=R&usg=AFQjCNG3I1wJ85FrRig_FsT4yaPMdqK0rA&url=http://www.quantico.marines.mil/News/NewsArticleDisplay/tabid/10834/Article/152538/2nd-annual-fall-festival-hosted-at-weapons-training-battalion.aspx"><b>2nd Annual Fall Festival <b>hosted</b> at Weapons Training Battalion</b></a><br /><b>Marines.mil (press release)</b>via http://qworky.tk/node/6415

8eight Come back - Lip Sync
via http://qworky.tk/node/6217

The furniture begins to arrive
Progress continues at New. It has been encouraging to see lots of the rooms taking shape. Some are now receiving their joinery. The first batch of shelves arrived yesterday and units will be arriving daily for some time. Level 3 has progressed most with all services in place for the rooms, carpet well advanced and painting and fit-out commenced. Levels 1 & 2 are a little behind the 3rd floor, but all rooms are stripped, rendering completed where needed and services under way.



The joinery begins to arrive for bedrooms


The first pieces of joinery are going in (new shelves)


Services in place and carpet on the way on level 2 



Painting the ceilings on level 3

Progress continues to be good in the courtyard. The skylights are all removed and the rest of the courtyard around them will be stripped soon as well as the concrete infills completed. The challenge with this work is to ensure that no water penetrates, so the stripping of the tiles is a progressive affair with covering (hence the frames) at the end of each day to keep water out.





The skylights have gone!



Progressive clearing of the courtyard.


HAPPY NEW YEAR EVERYONE!



Week 4 - 6
For the last few weeks we've been working together on the signs and countdown to christmas and some of us have been painting the stones.















Lets start at the very beginning


Hi!
I'm a young photographer, and I have decided to put some of my photos on my blog on a weekly basis. The first photo, is a photo I took of my Dad on a rainy Saturday afternoon. We were taking turns using each other as models. I took this photo, and my Dad did some work on it in Photoshop.






The second photo is of two of my toy tigers. I hadn't really learnt how to use Photoshop yet, so Dad did some Photoshop work on this photo to, but I do my own Photoshop work now :)




Brainstorming Activity
1. Come up with a creative name for your group
2. Open the assigned spreadsheet for your group and key in your group's name
3. Each group member will rename a sheet (tabs at the bottom of spreadsheet) with their names
4. Key in as many possibilities there are to the kitchen utensil/ cutlery assigned

Group 1's spreadsheet
Group 2's spreadsheet
Group 3's spreadsheet
Group 4's spreadsheet
Group 5's spreadsheet

Creativity and Invention (Carissa)
1. Similarities2. Differences3. Inter-relationships1.Both creativity and invention comes out with something new.2.Creativity is when someone comes out with a new idea of use or that has value while invention is when someone creates something new but it may not useful.3.I think that creativity as a great impact on invention. If someone invents something new, but does not have the creativity to make it appeal more to others, the invention may not be of much use. However, if someone has that creativity to improve the invention, it will appeal more to others and the invention may be successful. If there's a great idea, but no one would one to invent it, it would also be worthless.

Creativity and invention (Chinni)
The similarities of creativity and invention.....   Both are needed to create something new or innovate a new object.  The differences of creativity and invention......   Creativity is the think of some thing in an unusual way ,which means that different from others,    while invention about getting hands on some objects and trial out the thinking that they had            before. The inter-relationship with creativity and innovation.....   I think that creativity is necessary for invention because without creativity we have no idea            what to invent....



Also go to:
junketspublisher.blogspot.com
and
playscriptseries.blogspot.com

Aankho ka Rang Baat ka Lehja Badal Gaya 
Aankhon ka Rang Baat ka Lehja Badal Gaya,
Wo Shakhs Ek Shaam Mein kitna Badal Gaya..
Qadmon Tale jo Rait Bichi Thi Wo Chal Padi,
Us Ne Chudaya Haath To zamana Badal Gaya..
Koi Bhi Cheez Apni jagha Par Nahi Rahi,
Jaate Hi ek Shakhs k kya kya Badal Gaya..
Hairat Se Sare Lafz Use Dekhte Rhe,
Baaton Mai Apni Baat ko kaise Badal Gaya..
Shayad Wafa k khel Se Ukta Gaya Tha Wo,
Ai jaan
Manzil k Pass Aakr jo Rasta Badal Gaya.
R'R


Baat ChaLi Teri Baaton se
Baat ChaLi Teri Baaton Se Aur Ja P0hunchi Paimaane Tak.
Khinch Rahi Hai Teri ULfat Aaj Mujhe Maikhaane Tak.
Ishq Ki Baatein Ghum Ki Baatein Dunya WaaLe Karte Hai.
Kis Ne Shamma Ka Dukh Dekha, K0n Gaya Parwaane Tak.
Ishq Nahi Hai Tum K0 Mujh Se Sirf Bahaane Karte H0.
Yuhi Bahaane Qaaym Rakhna Tum Mere Marr Jane Tak.
Itna Hi Kehna Hai Tum Se Mumkin H0 To Aa Jana.
Aa Jao To Ruk Jaana Bs Saanson Ke Ruk Jane Tak.
R'R


Bhigi aankho ki har Rawani Se Alag Rehta hu
Bhigi aankho ki har Rawani Se Alag Rehta hu,
Aag Hi Aag Hu Pani Se Alag Rehta Hu,
Gumshuda Hu Dhoond Mat Mera Naam_o_Nishan,
Main To Hr Yaad hai kahani Se Alag Rehta Hu,
Tu Mere khyalo Mein gum kyu Rehta Hai,
Main To Khud Apni Kahani Se Alag Rehta Hu,
Phoolon Se Tark_e_Ta'aluq Ko Zamana Guzra,
Ab To Main Teri Hr Nishani Se Alag Rehta Hu,
Ek Shaks Se Mila Hai Muje Sab Dhoka_o_Faraib,
Main mahobbat ki har rawani Se Alag Rehta Hu.
R'R


Chalo Ruth Jao Tum.. 
Chalo Ruth Jao Tum
hum tum ko manate hai,
Tum Koi Zid lagao hum Use aage badhate hai,
Bohot din ho gaye taaron K Jhurmat Ki Chamak Dekhe,
Tum likho Geet hum Tum Pe Ghazal Gungunate hai,
Abhi To Waqt Hai Muthi Mein or Jazbat Hai Dil Mein,
Chalo Ab Maan Jao Tum,
hum Tum Se Ruth Jate Hai,
Mere Hathon Ko Thamo or Koi Phir Zid Nayi Kar Do,
Chalo Tum Do Qasam apni hum Wapis lout Aate Hai,
Or Bhi Hai Bohot Se Azmane K Hunar Baki,
Rakho Tum Hath Dil Pe,hum tumhe dhadkan Sunate Hai,
Bohot Din Ho Gaye Khamosh Mahobbat Ko Nibhate Hue,
hame Tum se Mohabat Hai,
hum Kahna Bhul
Jate hai..
R'R


Chand pagal hai
Roz taaron ki Numaish mein khalal parhta hai,
Chaand pagal h andhere mein nikal padta hai
Ek diwana musafir h meri ankhon mein
Waqt be-waqt Theherta h chal padta hai
Apni manzil k chakkar mein mera jagta khawab
Roz suraj ki tarah ghar se nikal padta hai
Roz pathar ki wafaao ki ghazal likhte hai
Roz sheeshon se koi kaam nikal padta hai
Yaad aayi h uski saanso zara ahista chalo
Dhadkano se bhi ibadat mein khalal padta hai.....
R'R


26/06/09
R.I.P//MichaelJacksonLong let him live through his music

Anna de Rijk
ComeBackKid//OnTheBlock"Anna de Rijk is the comeback girl of the fall 2009 shows. The 21-year-old Dutch native got her start three years ago when she won a modeling contest on a Dutch television station, and went on to sign with DNA and Women agencies."

Bec&Bridge
Inspired//Chains&HeelsLife's so slow here in black, tie mine together with chains.

Channeling Erin Wasson
Collection//ErinWassonxRVCASome of my favourite pieces from the collection.

Claustrophobia suffocates
Collection//StolenGirlfriendsClubI've feel so uninspired lately as the weeks drag on and I just can't wait for holiday.School works getting pretty heavy too. Please let me know what inspires you, I'd love to know :)New Zealand's amazing brand SGC is one of my personal favorites and love everything in their collection. Defiantly one to lookout for!

1st July - Mia and the Westies
First post in here - going to detail when my dogs and I are harrassed by dogs that are left to roam by their owners - it's the owners I blame not the dogs

Mia and the Westies tonight - Mia seemed to back of when one of my dogs muzzles came dislodged






BLACK BERRY MTN CONFIGURATION FOR FREE BROWSING













BUY BLACKBERY CURVE PHONE TO LIVE A BB LIFE


LIVE THE BLACKBERRY LIFE NOW, GRAB YOUR BLACKBERRY





11. 19 Feb 1983, boyfriend-girlfriend
Saturday 19th February 1983

The dance was...well, I'm not sure what I thought of it all....Stan wasn't there, or at least I didn't see him....Mark wanted to hold my hand, but I never wanted to. Poor Mark! But at the end Mark put his arm around my shoulder, I put mine around his waist. And he gave me a sweet peck on the cheek!

Today was really nice! Mark and I went on a bike ride to the Arboretum. We fed the ducks first, and were sort of shy. Then we went for a jog/walk. We ended up walking arms around each other....Then we sat again, occasionally head on shoulder, occasionally with his arm around me, nearly always close and touching. Perfectly girlfriend and boyfriend. Oh diary, my dreams were never even like this! Things are going so well! I suppose we do make a cute couple. Oh yes, we scratched M.Y. + J.B. into a table full of similar graffitti...
p.s. Today Mark asked if they pay me for being a candystriper. I replied, "No, I wish I could do something to earn money. I could do babysitting but I don't like it. But all little kids seem to love me!"
"Everyone seems to love you! Even older kids!"
p.p.s. Daddy says I'm well-balanced, well-adjusted and bright. I don't know myself very well at all, when I think about it.

Memory:
I just remembered when Cindy had puppies. Twelve (84!) years old! Everyone thought she was incredibly fat and no-one but me suspected she was going to have puppies. Then one night when Siobhan and I were in bed, Mommy came up and said, "There are two dogs in the basket." I do believe I went into a mild state of shock.



Siobhan and Cindy in the park in Abbeyleix, 1981



Pity though. She had seven puppies but was too old to give them all milk. Finally we only had two, Dopey and Buster. They were so cute, fat and silly. I remember Dopey's little pink tongue licking my nose. Oh, they were so adorable!



Dopey, Cindy's puppy



And remember all the cats? Bindy, Mindy and Lindy - the tiny kittens, Button and Mimi, Socks, Big Mama, Stumpy, and then darling Sasha. We knew each other so well. Remember how I used to go out to the shed, and sit down, and sing. Those were beautiful times.



cats on kitchen windowsill 1981




cats in shed, 1981



And remember how I made the letter-place, where I pulled up a big board, then a second, then a cushion. It was all so nice. And then the cats used to sit up there with me.

And remember how Daddy and I cleared the shed and played tennis there.

Oh Amber, how I loved those days in Abbeyleix! I've had such a wonderful life. It would make a good basis for a story. I think I'll do that.



sheds in Abbeyleix




sheds in Abbeyleix




Siobhan's and my bedroom, which was Papa's room, Abbeyleix, 1981




drawing room in Abbeyleix, 1981, which was my parents' room

[Stephen and I went back to Abbeyleix in 2010, and ate in the Chinese restaurant which now takes up the upstairs of the house, and I took some photos:




back of house in Abbeyleix, 2010, window of Papa's bedroom upper left




entrance hall in Abbeyleix, 2010




drawing room fireplace in Abbeyleix, 2010




sheds in Abbeyleix, 2010. Very back, where we played tennis



beautiful day
This afternoon our family including both grandma's and "uncle monkey" all went up to Rose canyon lake for my birthaday. It was a refreshing change than being in town in one of our houses. The weather couldn't have been better. It was gorgeous there. With all the rain lately the lake was full and the mountain was sooo GREEN. The kids seemed to have alot of fun. Poor Wyatt though, he kept tripping and falling while climbing and running around. We got to the picnic site and immediately ate lunch and then we headed down to check out the lake. It was Ma and Mikeys first time. You can actually go almost all the way around but only the right side has this little walkway. There were actually lots of people coming and going but all were pleasant. Once we started heading back to the site for cake Kelly told us she had to use the bathroom but once she saw the "toilet" she refused to go. But after cake when she HAD to go we went without a problem but she kept telling me she had to flush it. "Mommy how do I flush it?" At least she is trained to flush after going. After just relaxing for a little while Rob and Mikey started throwing the frisbee then it got tossed to me then Ma joined in. It was a funny sight watching ma and I trying to throw straight, with Rob and Mike teasing us. It was a great day. It didn't start out great...Wyatt got into my contact lense case this morning and managed to lose one of my lenses. Of course it was my last pair and now I have to wear glasses until we can afford to get a new exam and prescription. Anyway.. here is a good shot of Dad and Kelly at the lake. I've been trying to post other pictures but they are not showing up. VERY FRUSTRATING. GRRRR. Anyway it was still a cool day and I can't wait to go camping with the kids. (I know I'm crazy). Have a good Sunday

better day?
Today i am feeling much better. so good in fact i'm going to call my friend julie and hopefully go scrapbookin' at her place tonight. yeehaw!but first i must do all my mommy and wifely duties aka sweep, mop, lunch, dinner, already vacuumed, maybe start laundry. my life can be sooo exciting can't it??the kids and i went to sears to pick up wyatts 2 yr. pictures as soon as they opened this morning. this was the hardest photo shoot i have erver done. little man did not want to sit still, heaven forbid to ask him or try to pose him. thankfully we got maybe three good shots. one shot was cropped and i think it was the best shot of him. maybe next year he will either calm down to sit still or i'll be good enough in my photography to do my own portraits. that would be way to cool.it is so humid right now that i just want to get my stuff done so i can relax and stop sweating. yuck.if i had a scanner i could post a picture out of wyatt sears photo shoot but maybe i'll find a different one to use. ahh, little man at his birthday party. he had such a good day that day all playing and no whining(sp?).enough for now, i must get on with my duties. hope all is good for you, have a blessed dayCarriehe is such a cutie. he is such a pistol. he is wyatt and i love him dearly.

Happy Birthday to Me!!
Good Tuesday morning,Well it's official I am now "in" my 30's. On this day 31 yrs ago my mom popped me out. teehehee. Today is going to be another ordinary day. The kids and I are going to the park mall play area for a play date with my friend Michelle and her kids. They (the kids) have a good time together. Otherwise I'm working tonight so this is just a regular day. Don't get me wrong there is nothing wrong with a normal day and I did go to rose canyon lake on sunday so it's all good.As I was getting the kids their breakfast I started thinking about what some of my dreams and fantasies are. This is my day and I can dream right? Here goes.I really want to go to Scotland next year. I want to build and move into my dream home. I would love to have a second vehicle again and to be able to afford gas for both. I would like to either own my own scrapbooking business or a B&B; scrapbook retreat. Um let's see what else. Some new clothes would be nice. To be able to travel to or visit far away friends or bring them here.The one thought that is pressing is that my kids and husband always feel and know that I love them and that I want them to be happy.oh yeah, I wish I could afford a maid and to have fresh flowers on the table weekly and to have a gorgeous flower garden with a waterfall.Some of my dreams are achieveable but I would have to get off the computer or my own butt to do them. Sometimes that just seems to hard or to far away. Marcus Solero said this," A possibility was born the day you were born and it will live as long a you live."Anything is possible. Carrie


hi all, I know i said tomorrow would be the first post but Rob just got home from work and isn't happy that it's all about me. Even though i will be doing all the posting. this is to be the "Family" blog not just me. So as we go forward you will see some changes.Carrie

launch
Ok gang this blog is for everyone to read about the ramblings of the Ross family. Please note YOUR name could show up!! Since I like to read other peoples blogs I hopefully will stay up on my own. Please feel free to leave any comments. I would love to read what's on your mind.Please don't expect this to be grammatically correct because from the title I'm just trying to keep up! Love ya lotsCarrieP.S. first real daily post is tomorrow


The 1st person who goes to Exclusive Company in Milwaukee (on Farwell Ave.) and shows their Brett Dennen CD(s) or.....  http://ping.fm/u6NEb


227's YouTube Chili' Green Bay Packers Local Softball Game: Green Bay Packers Local Softba... http://bit.ly/jW65t... http://ping.fm/UQuuZ


227's YouTube Chili' Green Bay Packers Linebacker, Clay Matthews, All-Pro Shopper: Green B... http://bit.ly/lhYtf... http://ping.fm/pFRe6


And, now, your Milwaukee weather report: http://ping.fm/FDoAy http://ping.fm/IXhzF

# ASHOL-PAN, A 13 YEAR OLD MONGOLIAN SHAMAN/ EAGLE HUNTRESS/ EAGLE WHISPERER #


http://www.bbc.com/news/magazine-26969150

 TOUCHED BY AN EAGLE 





http://www.bbc.com/news/magazine-26969150


# HOME IS...# PART 1
# "Whatever you love more in this world then you love yourself. # That is what you want to dedicate your devotion too. This can be creativity,music,service,adventure,travel, faith,family, raising Corkies.

WHAT IS YOUR HOME"?

Excerpt of TED Talk by Elizabeth Gilbert. Author; Eat,Pray, Love

Damn. I miss you..



It's nearly a month away to come back to you, to be in your arms. It's so close yet so far and I still miss you everyday like crazy. Every time I miss you, I'll look back all the screenshots, pictures you sent or some videos of yours. It's sad that we don't even have a picture of two of us. Not even one. I know that I can't do anything when I miss you, even if I told you, you couldn't help this too. Sometimes, maybe I make you feel sad by telling you that I miss you. Every night before I fall asleep, I'll always imagine the moment I got back and see you there in the airport waiting for me or things that we're going to do and everything. I just wish time could pass faster, so that I can finally feel you, hug you & kiss you..

I Love You.. XOXO

Family 



Today is your mom's birthday & you suddenly text me & said that they wanna see me. So, you FaceTime me & I was so shy & don't know what to do & what to say as you were showing me around to your family. I still remember the time when you told me about you mentioned me to your family members. I feel like I'm part of your family & happy to meet them. I know it sucks that I can't let my family know about us and have to hide this relationship. I don't know what will happen if I told them about it. I don't want this to tear us apart & I will find a good opportunity to let them know. I know we're in relationship not even a year yet, but I already wish to be a part of your family..

My 20th Birthday











You always asked me what I want for my birthday but I always gave you the same answer "I don't want anything." Today, postman came as usual to deliver parcel and you got me an infinity bracelet. You knew that I don't have one and so you can tie me to you and love me infinitely. My tears dropped when I opened it. I didn't expect you to give me anything and you got me such beautiful bracelet. Also, this was the first gift I ever received from a guy. I will wear it no matter where I go and will never take it off. You also spent whole day with me and play guitar to me and made me cried again (told you I cry a lot). You gave me the best birthday and make me feel like the luckiest girl in the world :)

Birthday Fun!


Go DAWGS!


Gotta Love Mickey!
I just bought tickets to go and see Playhouse Disney Live On Tour! The show is not coming until March '08, but it will give us something to look forward to while Chris is away. I think that I am more excited than the kids are at this point. I just love to see their faces and watch them dance and sing when we go to a show. We took Luke to see The Wiggles last year, and I couldn't stop watching him the whole time. Pure joy on his face! Here they are watching Mickey Mouse Clubhouse (an every morning event). I remember lying on the floor with my head propped in my hands as a kid. My brother and I used to watch TV sitting in that position. Have you tried it lately? Not as comfortable as I remember.Chris gets home tonight from 2 weeks in the field.  His block leave starts next Monday and I am so excited to have him home with the family for 2 weeks.  No big plans, just lots of family fun!  

Pre-deployment Brief
Tonight I have to attend Chris's battalion's pre-deployment brief. I cannot believe he is getting ready to leave again. He just got home in February, but here we are preparing for another 7 months without Daddy. I know that we will make it through. God is so faithful and supplies every need. I just dread the day he has to go. Deployment is hard on the kids and myself, but it is so hard for Chris. I hate that he has to miss another Thanksgiving and Christmas. Both Chris and I feel strongly about his job and mission while he is away. We both know that we are making this sacrifice for a reason. He has seen such tremendous improvement since he was in Iraq last time. It gives me great hope for their country and their ability to succeed.

Where does the time go?
Time goes so fast. We just celebrated Luke's 4th and Hayley's 2nd birthdays. I look at them and I am amazed at how quickly their "baby days" have passed, and we are moving closer to the preschool/schools days. Luke will begin 4 year preschool in a few weeks and I choke back the tears as I think of him growing up. Don't get me wrong, it is such a gift to get to watch the two of them grow, learn, and become the people God has made them to be. I just don't want to miss a moment! Happy Birthday my precious babes.

Day 1, The beginning.
'To make a picture is to capture a moment in time, to create a world where the viewer finds himself wondering about the moment and wanting to know more'

As a professional photographer i am starting this blog to share some of my experiences in photography, life and love, with everyone.Please join me on my roller-coaster ride witch is life.


A Fond Farewell To Jeremy Lloyd.


This Blogger has always thought that the writing team of Lloyd & Croft was sharper than that of Perry & Croft who brought us 'Dad's Army' with a great cast and some wonderful situations but never quite matched with the quality of script.
'Allo,'Allo 'owever, must be the best 'knock about' comedy of all time. It was near perfect in all three key areas.




A Happy New Year.


If celebrating tonight, please act responsibly and do not put yourself or others in danger.

A Modern Age Abuse of The Elderly.
http://www.dailymail.co.uk/news/article-2881206/Separated-Christmas-council-diktat-Couple-married-50-years-left-distraught-social-workers-refuse-let-stay-nursing-home-despite-doctor-s-approval.html

Agnosticism Debate. William Lane Craig.

http://www.apologetics315.com/search/label/Agnosticism


Awards
GMA Dove Awards    * 2008 "Artist of the Year"    * 2008 "Short Form Music Video of the Year" for "Boomin"    * 2008 "Rock/Contemporary Album of the Year" for Portable Sounds    * 2006 "Rock Recorded Song of the Year" for "The Slam"    * 2005 "Rap/Hip Hop Album of the Year" for Welcome to Diverse City    * 2003 "Short Form Music Video of the Year" for "Irene"    * 2002 "Rap/Hip Hop Recorded Song of the Year" for "Somebody's Watching"    * 2002 "Rap/Hip Hop Album of the Year" for MomentumGrammy nominations    * 2008 "Best Pop/Contemporary Gospel Album" for Portable Sounds    * 2008 "Best Gospel Song" for "Made to Love"    * 2005 "Best Rock Gospel Album" for Welcome to Diverse City    * 2003 "Best Rock Gospel Album" for MomentumChristian Music Links!

Discography
Studio albums   Year Title Label(s) Status Peak Position (Billboard 200)    2001 Momentum ForeFront Records Gold [11] #110   2004 Welcome to Diverse City ForeFront Records Gold [11] #54   2007 Portable Sounds ForeFront Records  #10   2009 TBA ForeFront Records Remix albums   Year Title Label(s)   2003 Re:Mix Momentum ForeFront Records   2005 Renovating Diverse City ForeFront RecordsLive albums  Year Title Label(s)   2008 Alive and Transported ForeFront Records  Christian Music Links!

The Diverse City Band
Toby's band on his albums and his live shows has become known as "The Diverse City Band". In 2007 they recorded their first single as a band; "Party (Citizens Come Out)". The song is featured on the Hip Hop compilation album, "Hip Hope 2008".    * "tobyMac" - lead vocals    * Gabe "GabeReal" Patillo - vocals    * Deshon "Shonlock" Bullock - vocals    * Nirva "Nirvessence" Dorsaint-Ready - vocals    * Dave "D-Dub" Wyatt - keyboard, backing vocals    * Brian "Da Bomb" Haley - drums    * Todd "Toddiefunk" Lawton - bass    * Tim "T-Rose" Rosenau - guitar, trumpet, backing vocals    * DJ Maj - turntablesChristian Music Links!

Janet Jackson, LL Cool J And TobyMac In Philadelphia This Week
Jan Westmark - Celebrity News ServicePhiladelphia, PA (CNS) - Janet Jackson and LL Cool J will bring their music to Philadelphia this week when they perform at the Wachovia Center on October 2.TobyMac will also perform at the Wachovia Center on October 4 while Graham Parker performs at Tin Angel that same night and Pete and J perform at the Electric Factory.A list of concerts and events in the Philadelphia area this week, according to Celebrity News Service, is as follows:The Juan Maclean at Johnny Brenda's on 9/30Glasvegas at North Star on 9/30Ratatat at Starlight Ballroom on 10/1The Bird and the Bee at World Cafe Live on 10/1Stereolab at The Trocadero on 10/1Janet Jackson and LL Cool J at the Wachovia Center on 10/2AA Bondy at First Unitarian Church on 10/2Unearth at the Theatre of Living Arts on 10/2Everlast at The Trocadero on 10/2Fleet Foxes at Starlight Ballroom on 10/2The Lordz at The Trocadero on 10/2N.E.R.D. at the Electric Factory on 10/2Sonya Kitchell at World Cafe Live on 10/3Chromeo at The Trocadero on 10/3TobyMac at the Wachovia Center on 10/4Graham Parker at Tin Angel on 10/4Pete and J at the Electric Factory on 10/4King Wilkie at Tin Angel on 10/5Mason Jennings at Theatre of Living Arts on 10/5Christian Music News Source

Together
Updating this dead space nw :)

Being spending most of my time with my darling!
Luvv him :)

Blissful
Joyous day ;)



 
Great day today, gt back my phone!
I managed to survive 3 days without my phone *claps*
Nw i know who cares abt me the most!
4-8 gathering later, Yay!
Miss my sisters!
Maybe meeting darling aftwards :)
Tmrw darling's friend bday chalet, will be gg with him! (Y)
Awesome ppl ard me, life's full of happiness :D


 


Gonna prepare to go out alr, bye bye!


Love you baby, im so glad we met :D


Hello all! :D 
Im here to blog while waiting for darling!
He's cleaning up his ahma's place.

Drinking koi, milk tea is nice. :)
No pictures today coz I'm using my phone to update.
Next time okaz! 

Erm, should update a lil abt my life right? 
Studies is stress, but I've gt my dear with me!
Everything is worth it ;)
My dear shawn's so nice, that's why I love him so much ?
Heehee, jie jie also very nice! 
Happy to hv nice ppl ard me, makes me feel so blessed ?

Oh ya, I gng back to ajisen to work next wed & thurs!
Memories. ?
Happiest time of my life ;)
Gonna stop here! Bye!

Pixtures






Thoughts
Using my iPhone to blog nw! 
Very fast right, our 1st month is just tmr! :D
Busy with projects and tests,
sooo less time for my baby! ;(
Ahhh, is okaz! Gonna fetch baby from work tmr! <3
Will be back with pics soon! 


We belong tgt :)

CHECK OUT the second son of the Deputy Governor of
Sokoto state! [Photos]
He resides in Maitama District,
Abuja and London. Check out
some cool photos of him that we
laid our hands on while
snooping around.
"Anyone who hates on you
because you show off the
body u slaved for is only
hating cuz they don't have
the mental strength to
achieve the same!" he says!
                    

Check This Out This Stunning Mercy Aigbe&#39;s Lovely
Sunday Outfit!
Rate her on a scale of 0-10?
    

Meet the Nyankos
Welcome to AnimeYorozuya (^_^) New Updates are up at the page "The Nyankos". 

Meet the Nyankos, the members of Anime Yorozuya ~~\(^o^)/

Click link = The Nyankos or clink the above tab labelled "The Nyankos"

New Updates (30/12/2011)
1) Naruto's Room has opened. You can visit the room through item list page or click the link below. 

Link = http://animeyorozuya.blogspot.com/p/naruto.html 

2) More items have added in One Piece's Room.

Grandline Men Vol.6
Grandline Men Vol.7
Grandline Men?
For more details, please visit One Piece's Room or click the link below. 

Link = http://animeyorozuya.blogspot.com/p/one-piece.html

3) New items have added in the New Arrival Page.

Ao No Exorcist Strap 2
Naruto Shippuuden Gacha Die Casting Plate
One Piece Gacha One Piece Statue 02 
For more details, please visit the New Arrival Page or click the link below. (^_^)

Link = http://animeyorozuya.blogspot.com/p/new-arrivals.html 

Anandpur Sahib Fort (Ropar)
 Anandpur Sahib Fort (Ropar)
    Location          : About 85 kms north-west of Chandigarh, district Ropar (Rupnagar)  Punjab-India. 
   
This place has a number of historical Gurudwaras, with a backdrop of  Naina Devi Hill. On the day following the festival of Holi, devotees  flock to Anandpur Sahib, to participate in the Hola Mohalla  celebrations, re-enacting Sikh battles of yore, with ancient arms and  weapons. 

The Khalsa Panth was founded here, a council of five wise men that  governs Sikh religious affairs was first established here, as was the  practice of worshipping the Guru Granth Sahib. Anandpur Sahib is the  ideal place to gain an insight into the essence of Sikhism that governs  the life of tough, hardy Sardars from Bhatinda to Birmingham.  

During  the festivals of Holla Mohalla (March) and Baisakhi (April) you can  join the sea of devotees who flock to Anandpur Sahib, converting it into  a carnival zone brimming with religious fervour, culture, tradition and  gaiety. Anandpur Sahib is a small town 80 km from Chandigarh. It lies  in the Ropar district of north-east Punjab, on the border with Himachal  Pradesh. On one side of Anandpur Sahib are the foothills of the towering  Shivalik range, on the other, the river Sutlej. Located on the  Ambala-Sirhind-Ropar-Nangal rail route and the Ambala-Nangal road, it is  45 km from Ropar and 22 km from Nangal.  

Kesar Sahib Gurdwara lies in the centre of town and is a five minute  walk from the bus stand on the highway. Between Kesar Sahib and the bus  stand lies a market with numerous chemists, snack shops and STD booths.   

How to Reach    

Air : Chandigarh is the nearest airport, 97 km away. Jet  Airways (daily) and Indian Airlines (twice a week) operate flights  between New Delhi and Chandigarh. Indian Airlines also operates flights  to Chandigrah from Amritsar (twice a week) and Leh (once a week).  
 
Rail : The main railhead for trains coming in from Mumbai is  Ambala Cantonment, 125 km away. From Ambala Cantonment there are a few  passenger trains running to Nangal and an Express train as well, all of  which stop in Anandpur Sahib  

Anglo-Sikh War Memorial (Ferozeshah)
 Anglo-Sikh War Memorial          (Ferozeshah)

Was  set-up here in 1976 A.D. The portraits of significant historical  personality and battle scenes executed by artists, Jaswant Singh and  Kirpal Singh and some of the weapons used in those days are on display  here. 

Portraits of historical personalities and battle scenes painted by  Jaswant Singh and Kirpal Singhand are exhibited. Weapons used in the  Anglo-Sikh War are also conserved in the memorial.  

Art Gallery at Sheesh Mahal
 Art Gallery at Sheesh Mahal    

Patiala,  contains a rare set of miniature paintings and paintings in Kangra,  Rajasthan and Patiala styles, special section on Tibetan Arts and  Artifacts etc. and its Medal Gallery contains the world's major group of  Medals and decorations.  

Others depict themes from mythology, legends, Raga Ragnis,  Nayak-Nayika and Baramasa. The placement of concave and coloured mirrors  in the prayer room creates an remarkable effect on the mind when a  luminosity is put there. The floral designs on the walls are reminiscent  of Emperor Jahangir's time.  

Bhadurgarh Fort (6 kms from Patiala)
 Bhadurgarh Fort (6 kms from Patiala)

Bhadurgarh  Fort 6 kms from Patiala, initially founded by Nawab Saif Khan in 1658.  The present fort was built by Maharaja Karam Singh of Patiala in 1837.  It has two circular ramparts and is surrounded by a moat and covers an  area of 2100 sq meters. This rather compact but nicely designed citadil  is in the custody of the Department of police. 

The four wails of the fort enclose the village Saifabad located on  the left-side of the Rajpura-Patiala Road. Saif Khan, a relative of the  Mughal Emperor Aurangzeb, after holding several important offices,  became a hermit and settled down here. After his death he was buried  here. His tomb behind the fort, a structure of 177 x 177 ft. is in a  state of neglect. Notwithstanding this, his followers still lit a lamp  on the tomb every Thursday.  

The two inscriptions in the fort testify that the village and the  mosque were founded in 1668 during the reign of Aurangzeb. As the custom  goes, Nawab Saif Khan was a great admirer of Guru Teg Bahadur. He  invited him to use rainy season here. His trip is commemorated by two  gurdwaras- One inside the fort and the other outside across the road. It  is well-known as Panj Bali Gurdwara.The Bahadurgarh Fort was  constructed by Maharaja Karam Singh throughout 1837-45 at a cost of Rs.  10, 00,000  

Getting Started
Hi, I wanted to write some erotica stories. I am a guy and I want to fascinate ladies with a tremendous pleasure, they will thoughly enjoy if they even experienced it. Imagine a touch that would make you close your eyes and cream until you just wanted to be filled with something of immense size. As you feel a true tropical caribbean loving.

131940_DDSW: New England Highway, Crows Nest - Hazard: Water over road Both Directions - All lanes affected. Short delays e http://t.co/fhuJALEV
131940_DDSW: New England Highway, Crows Nest - Hazard: Water over road Both Directions - All lanes affected. Short delays e http://t.co/fhuJALEV

131940_DDSW: New England Highway, Crows Nest-Toowoomba Regional - Open (with caution). http://t.co/55X03UiJ
131940_DDSW: New England Highway, Crows Nest-Toowoomba Regional - Open (with caution). http://t.co/55X03UiJ

131940_DDSW: New England Highway, Crows Nest-Toowoomba Regional - Open (with caution). (vicinity of Crows Nest caravan park) http://t.co/55X03UiJ
131940_DDSW: New England Highway, Crows Nest-Toowoomba Regional - Open (with caution). (vicinity of Crows Nest caravan park) http://t.co/55X03UiJ

131940_DDSW: New England Highway, The Glen - Stationary Vehicle: Lane or lanes reduced. Short delays expected. Proceed with http://t.co/bjlOWnEs
131940_DDSW: New England Highway, The Glen - Stationary Vehicle: Lane or lanes reduced. Short delays expected. Proceed with http://t.co/bjlOWnEs

131940_DDSW: New England Highway, The Glen - Stationary Vehicle: All directions - Limited to one lane. Long delays expected. http://t.co/bjlOWnEs
131940_DDSW: New England Highway, The Glen - Stationary Vehicle: All directions - Limited to one lane. Long delays expected. http://t.co/bjlOWnEs

Available Now: New Balance 530 OG

Head over to HYPE DC to pick up the reissue of the OG NB 530

AU$ 139.95

White/Purple
Grey/Orange

stay on the NB tip...












Available Now: New Balance 998 "Moby DIck"





The New Balance 998 Moby Dick from the Authors pack is available now at Kith head over there to pick up your pair. Or expect to see them at more retailers soon.



Retail US$170



stay on that NB tip...


Firament x New Balance CT300 "Pine Sunset"





More detailed pictures have surfaced of one of the four CT300 collabs set to release on the 27th on June. I really like the mixture of colours on this model. Hopefully we see a global release.



Source: Sneaker News












NB Collab: New Balance CT300 (Hanon, Firament, 24 Kilates and SNS)





New Balance is set to drop a pack of New Balance CT300 the classic tennis silhouette. Check out teaser pictures and clips below.

stay on that NB tip...




















1 trick for getting laid (video)
Seriously!  Getting laid is simple... All you have to do is read this email. And then watch  this completely free video that shows  you a scientifically-proven mind control trick that gets women  turned on,  attracted to you, and wanting to bang.....within seconds.  Best part? The trick is 100% rejection proof. And it's completely undetectable. Which means you'll never get "caught" using this. And you'll never get shot-down or embaressed.  Simply use this trick. And sit back as women do everything they can to get  YOU into bed. Sound too good to be true? Well it's NOT  And you can prove it to yourself just as soon as you watch this video and use it to get yourself some nice warm pussy....  Click Here To Watch Now http://zzb.bz/YCn3r  Enjoy!    

3 words that make her horny 
This video gives you the keys to the "desire center" of any woman's mind:   Watch The Video Now http://zzb.bz/Aj3Di  When you watch the shocking free video you will discover:  -1 Weird Trick For Making Any Woman Wet  -3 Magic Words That Make Women Horny  -How To Use Innocent Questions To Make Her Fall In Love With You  And more....  After you watch the video you will never get rejected again and you will never have to spend another night alone again. Because you'll know EXACTLY how to get any woman out of her panties and into your bed. But the video is being taken down tonight at midnight. So you have to watch IMMEDIATELY!  Watch The Video Now http://zzb.bz/qWgAz    

A couple of weeks you will decrease the weight! Guarantee, reduce 5kg (12 lb)  a week
do you want to be thin again?Local Mom lost 57 pound in a weekWE have the  largest price list!http://zzb.bz/NlG5p

A healthy body makes all the difference
How do u do  We are defined by the choices we make, and I want to help you change your waist line.  Get Started! 

A healthy body makes all the difference
I love that I can now fit in to my old clothes  You will be thankful when you have the shape you have always dreamed of.  Get Started! 

about this blog
hi all
this is a new blog that I'm setting up for the bike friday club of nz - to find out more about me and my riding see my other blog at http://lifeonabikeinnz.blogspot.co.nz/







Chicken, fennel and orange
I had a fennel bulb I bought from the market recently and used it in this recipe. 
Ingredients
1 teaspoon paprika
1 teaspoon ground cumin 
1 teaspoon ground coriander 
1/2 teaspoon ground ginger 
1/2 teaspoon ground sea salt 
1/4 teaspoon ground black pepper 
4 chicken breasts 
1 tablespoon olive oil 
1 bulb fennel, thinly sliced 
1/4 cup fennel leaves, chopped 
1 medium red onion, cut into 1 inch chunks 
2 oranges (grated rind of one reserved for couscous, both juiced for sauce) or one cup juice
1 heaped teaspoon vegetable or chicken powder
1/3 cup water
2 teaspoons cornflour, water to mix

Couscous
1 cup uncooked couscous
2 cups boiling water
1 teaspoon butter
grated orange rind

Directions:
Combine spices, salt and pepper. Season chicken to coat both sides.
Heat oil and cook chicken breasts (approx 5 minutes each side). 
Remove chicken and keep warm.
Add the fennel and onions to the pan and saute for 5 minutes, adding 1 tablespoon water for moisture. 
Boil two cups of water with 1/4 teaspoon of salt. Add couscous to water and turn off heat. Cover and let sit for 5 minutes. Fluff the grains before serving.
Add juice, water and stock and bring to boil, stirring.  Add cornflour mixed with water. Stir until it just begins to thicken, about 2 minutes.
Add chicken and chopped fennel, re-heat for about 2 minutes, spooning sauce over chicken. 
Spoon coucous onto plate, with chicken and fennel and onions. Spoon portion of sauce on top.

Really delicious!

LEMONS - golden lemon biscuits - SEPTEMBER
These biscuits are an old favourite - easy to whip up, and crisp with a hint of lemon. Today Marley and Lila helped with mixing, putting walnuts on and licking the spoons!

Ingredients
125g butter
1/2 cup sugar
1 egg
1 1/4 cups SR flour
grated rind of one lemon

Method
Melt the butter in jug in the microwave. Place sugar in bowl and add hot butter and stir. Add egg and stir, the rind and finally the flour. 
Place teaspoons on a tray - allow room for spreading. Put a walnut half on top. 
Bake on 180C for 10-12 minutes. 
Cool on tray.

LEMONS - lemon ginger cordial - September


Afternoon sun on the lemon tree
The gorgeous lemon tree is cropping well and it's time to use the lemons. Today, I'll make some cordial based on an old recipe my mother-in-law used to make. I always think of her when I make this recipe.
500g sugar 
1 litre water
4 lemons
1 tb grated ginger
2 tsp citric acid
2 tsp tartaric acid
1 tsp Epsom salts 
Cut the lemons in half and juice the lemons. Put juice into a bowl or large heatproof jug (2 litre). Meanwhile, put the remaining lemon halves into a saucepan along with the sugar. Add 1 litre of water (or enough to cover the lemons) and bring to the boil, stirring the sugar until it is dissolved, and then simmer for about 5 minutes. Remove from heat and add grated ginger. Allow mixture to cool. Strain the water into the bowl or jug with the lemon juice, and add the citric acid and tartaric acid and Epsom salts. Stir well. 
Pour liquid into clean, dry bottles sealing securely. I use clean plastic containers (750g or 1.25 litre). 
This mixture will keep up to six weeks if stored in a cool dry place.
Dilute to serve with water or soda water. Can also add mint to serve.

MY FIRST ARTICLE
You know what they say.... first experience is always the hardest one of all. I had nver thought of creating a blog before, but i came to realize how fun it is, having a site of your own. today, i have nothing more to say but... i like writting and i will use this opportunity to write as many articles as i can... and share experinces with all people who will wish to tweet on my blog. Have nice time everybody

A good nurse is worth more than rubies ~ Feb. 13th
Dad had a good evening last night, with a visit from Derek A., and Mom of course. :) His nurse was particularly helpful on day shift, changing the dressing along the femur with the surgeon present. The RN asked if a wound care specialist could be consulted as it is a deep wound, with risks of complications. It is good that she is on top of that. The hiccups were intermittent, but still just as intense with taking away Dad's breath when they did come. Who knew there'd be such a concerted effort to pray away something "silly" like hiccups?! But really, for those to go away would really increase Dad's comfort level. Thanks so much to all of you for supplicating for him... nothing is ever too trivial to take to God. :) Off to hospital now... Susan

P.S. My post title alludes to how your day can be particularly influenced by just one person... any of you with experience in hospital can likely attest to that.

Email: jackatkins@ozonline.com.au


University of America







University of America







University of Cyprus

University of Cyprus





University of england






University of England



University Of France


University Of France





13 Vintage Halloween Songs from the Jazz Age




A Preview of Sochi Olympics Fireworks?
Explosion on bus in southern Russian city kills at least 5, injures 17




BUNGE
MIJADALA YETU.

Acid eye 
    

Aztec art 
    

Budha Awakening 
All yuh think all yuh know all you see all yuh do is just an illusion so remember yuh r still dreaming ;) 
- Admin de IPR

    

#Crystal skulls
"The
skulls were kept inside a pyramid in a formation
of tremendous power known as the Ark. The Ark
was comprised of the twelve skulls from each of
the sacred planets kept in a circle, with the
thirteenth skull, the largest, placed in the center
of this formation. This thirteenth skull represents
the collective consciousness of all the worlds. It
connects up the knowledge of all the sacred
planets.
    

#kali
    

New Blog

This is my new blog!




MUKESH -- A Voice To Remember
MUKESH Chand Jorawar Chand Mathur was a voice that could, on one hand, be deeply melancholic and on the other,exude a profoundly innocent and melodious sweet.His voice was an exquisite blend of torment and anguish,tenderness and joy. Mukesh was born on July 22,1923 in a small middle-class family in Old Delhi.The first person to notice Mukesh was actor Moti Lal. A distant relative of his, he had attended Mukesh's sister's marriage in Delhi and was deeply impressed by the yound man's voice. Moti Lal brought Mukesh to Bombay and arranged Pandit Jagannath Prasad to groom him. Mukesh did a Hindi film during this period as singer and hero,Nirdosh(1941) but it flopped miserably.His first real break as a playback singer came under thebaton of Anil Biswas in the film Paheli Nazar(1945) .The song was Dil Jalta hai to jalne de...which was picturised on Moti Lal.It sounded as if the youngman was just another K.L.Saigal. It was under Naushad with Mela(1948) and particularly Andaz(1949) when Mukesh finally discovered his own style.Andaz was a major triumph for Mukesh. All his four  solos were raging hits: Tu kahe agar..., Jhoom jhoom ke nacho aaj...,Hum aaj kahin dil kho baithe..., and Toote na dil toote na.... It is interesting to note that  though Mukesh was later to be regarded as the voice of Raj Kapoor, in Andaz , Mukesh 's songs went on Dilip Kumar while Mohd. Rafi sang for Raj Kapoor.The partnership with Raj Kapoor started with Aag, in 1948,  where Raj Kapoor's feelings of despodency and despair were vividly caught by Mukesh  in Ram Ganguly's composition Zinda hoon is tarah... and ended with  R.D.Burman's Ek din bik jaayega...from  Dharam Karam in 1975. In its course was an endless list of hits. Among them are the  evergreen songs of Awara(1951),Shri 420(1955),Parvarish(1958).Anari(1959),Sangam(1970). The inimitable team of Mukesh-Raj Kapoor-Shailendra-Hasrat Jaipuri-Shankar-Jaikishen was responsible  for producing one memorable hit after another for almost two and a  half decades starting  from  Barsaat,in 1949.From Mera joota hai Japani...(Shri 420) to Kisi ki muskurahton pe ho nissar...(Anari), from Dost dost na raha...(Sangam) to Jaane kahan gaye woh din...(Mera Naam Jokar), the emotions conveyed by the depth and intonation of the voice of this master-singer was unparalleled.However,life was not alays that easy and smooth. Following Awara's success, Mukesh almost ruined himself when he sidelined his singing career to pursue acting-- to try and make it as a singing star. Mashuqa,in 1953,with Suraiya and Anurag,in 1956, with Usha Kiron,both sank at the box office. He also did a small role as a tangewala enacting his own song Chhoti si zingani... in Aah(1953). Mukesh returned to playback singing only to  find thatoffers had dried  up. The situation reached a point that his children Nitin and Ritu  were turned out of school as they were nable to pay their fees. It was finally with  Yeh mere deewanapan hai... from Yahudi(1958) that Mukesh finally came back with a bang. Other hits that year like Madhumati,Parvarish and Phir Subah Hogi meant there was no turning back. Even S.D.Burman,who had not utilised Mukesh for over a decade, composedthose two materpieces for his--Chal ri sajni ab kya... fromBambai Ka Babu(1960), and O jaanewaale ho sake to laut ke aana... from Bandini(1963). Mukesh thereafter,flourished right through the 1960s and mid-1970s with soulful hits like Main to ek khwab hoon...(Himalay Ki God Mein, in 1965)Jeena yahaan marna yahaan...(Mera Naam Jokar),Maine tere liye hi saat rang ke sapne chune...(Anand,in 1970), Main na bhoolonga...(Roti Kapda Aur Makan--1974) and the unforgettable Main pal do pal ka shaayar hoon... and Kabhi kabhi mere dil ...(Kabhi Kabhie.1976). In 1974, Mukesh received the National Award for the song Kai baar yoon bhi dekha hai...from Rajnigandha(1974).His last recorded song was Chanchal,sheetal, nirmal komal... from Satyam Shivam Sundaram, released in 1978.In his illustrious career, Mukesh worked with several music directors,lyricist and co-singers and was the on-screen voice for several actors--notably, Raj Kapoor and Manoj Kumar. Mukesh sang a good number of songs with Laxmikant-Pyarelal, Kalyanji-Anandji,Salil Choudhuri,Usha Khanna,R.D.Burman and S.D.Burman. He died on August 27,1976 of a sudden heart attack during a concert tour of the US. He is survived by three daughters and two sons,including noted singer Nitin Mukesh.

Explicit Scenes on Silver Screen
SALMAN Rushdie called it the turkey-jerk,that crucial cinematic moment when the hero's face falls into the heroine's,befire he abruptly jerks away. Slowly but steadily Hindi movie stars are at it everywhere. On the beach,in the shower, on the bed,and even,gasp, on the parapet in "Murder". The rose bush-as-camouflage has gone,as have the two heads meeting behind a large tree trunk,the spurting fountain and the gushing waterfall.Sexuality has comeof age in Hindi cinema and it isany day netter than the titillation one got earlier. So girl is chasing girl in "Girlfriend", boy is chasing woman in the "Shabd(boy being Zayad Khan and woman bein Aishwarya Rai),girl is chasing old man (Sherawat with the hapless Dharmendra in "Kis Kis Ki Kismat") and the boy is grabbing firl off the street andkissing her in "Tumsa Nahin Dekha". Sex is out there,in the open.Saif Ali and Rani Mukherjee tumble,fully clohed, on the beach for a passionate kiss in "Hum Tum". But Rani chooses to giggle.Abhishek Bachchan shoots a supposedly seductive scene with Thai singer Tata Young for  "Dhoom".He is fully clothed so is she.Both are in the tub ,surrounded by fast-melting candles,looking very bored. Getting hold ofstills with heroines invarious stages of a kiss is virtually impossible.Ask producer Boney Kapoor and he looks sricken,"You know,heroines get very upset if we release pictures before the movie is out.Then they want to delete the sences". The wet scene has been done to death and who can top Raj Kapoor and what he did to Mandakini in "Ram Teri Ganga Maili".So frolicking in the rain is the next best alternative.In Aditya Chopra's Dilwale Dulhania Le Jayenge" Kajol was appropriately dancing by herself in a tiny white skirt. In "Masti"Vivek Oberoi went on the roof,in the rain with Lara Dutta.In "Tumsa Nahin Dekha".Emran Hashmi,having had his evil way with Sherawat in "Murder",fantasises about dancing with Dia Mirza as itpours. The 24-year old says he would like to kiss all his heroines. Any exposed body part will do for a kiss but the neck is a special favourite for Indian actors. Conservative star like Shah Rukh Khan tend to prefer this region, as to do their directors (a memorable exception was Shah Rukh Khan's scene with Deepa Mehta's "Maya Memsaab"). HrithikRoshan did not not even get that far--in "Lakshya", he had to be content kissing Preity Zinta's hand as he rests his head on her lap.Sameera Reddy seems to have kissed Anil Kapoor to distraction in "Musafir"where director Sanjay Gupta says."many bounmdiries have been crossed".Oberoi who seems to be hovering around Rai's neck in "Kyun!!Ho Gaya Na" even though all its ublicity is centred around a famous,non-existent kiss beween the apparently of-screen couple. Even when he was on the beach with Kareena Kapoor, Oberoi did not get too lucky in "Yuva".Like his,other actors very rarely wear beachwear.Even Priyanka Chopra,who left lettle to the imagination in "Andaz" would balk at being seen on the beach in a bikni. So in "Mijhse Shaadi Karogi",she is fully clothed with her two suitors. Even when she is in a alluring pose, it is in sports bra and skirt. Ditto,in "Girlfriend". And in the case of Neha Dhupia in "Julie"a whole lot of ink.After all,a good Indian girl,even though she is playing a "Prostitute by profession",she is usually all alone on the bed. Such autoeroticism is not needed when Sanjay Dutt is around. Which Arora finds out in Mahesh Manjrekar's "Rakht",where she plays out another favourite Bollywood fantasy:seduction by candlelight. Her targer: Lara Dutta. If shewears a brocade bra in the scene it is because the"song starts by the pool". The sexlet is not embarrassed by the demands on her body.Sherawat loves her image that of a confident sext woman of today. IN :Khwaish" she did not think twice about the scene where she walks into a chemist"s shop and asks for condoms.In "Murder",she plays a woman who falls in love outside her marriage.In "Kis Kis Ki Kismat" she plays a dumb bibo who is also courageous.And though she has a bodyguard off-screen,Bollywood women have the option to say no when they are propositioned. Nobody rapes you here. In the third lesbian film, "Men Not Allowed",sexlet Payal Rohtagi plays the proprietor of a modelling agency who falls in love with one of her female models, Monica Castelino. Neither of them had any inhibitions in doing the film's intimate scenes. They read the script and knew exactly what to do.So it is unbelievable to argue that "we were not known about what to play a role".

Lyrics Lie  & Lyricists
LYRICS in the film are considered to be the most important part of the film.Our lyricists have given to its listeners and cine viewers so many tilting,serious and heart-touching lyrics which can't be forgotten in any age. Take Pradeep for instance,whose lyrics are too relevant till date as if written  by observing todays happenings. Secondly,Jara samane to aao chhalie...,a lyric penned by V.M.Vyas for Janam Janam Ke Phere in mid of 1960s but till date looks afresh and touchy, then Le lo duayein maa baap ki (film Maa Baap) is not only a song but a teaching to those newly weds who tease their parents after marriage or try to ignore them.But Nagri nagri duare duare; Jeevan mein hum aaye to jeena hi parega,jeevan hai agar zaher to pina hi parega(Mother India);Jahen basti thin kal khushiyen,aaj hai matam wahan(Waqt);Garibon ki sune wo tumhari sunega(Dus Lakh);Sajan re jhoodh mat bolo khuda ke pass jana hai(Tisri Kasam);Ek din bik jayega mati ke more(Dharam Karam);Na jao saiyen churake bahiyan(Sahib Bibi aur Ghulam); Ye takte-o-taajon ke duniya(Pyasa);Sapn jare phul se mit chube sul se(Nai Umar Ki Nai Fasal) and there are so many heart throbing songs penned by our film lyricists giving our society and the nation a teaching to live and let live in peace and to make the society as well as the nation a healthy and prosperous be united and work with peace. But there are instances when our lyricists have to write songs without really studying the situation in the film. And when the directors and editors fail to notice such slips cine-goers get comic relief. If in David Dhawan's Hero No.1Govinda sings to thefatherless heroine(Karihma Kapoor):Main tujko bhaga laya hoon tere ghar se, o tere baap ke dar se... then in L.V.Prasad's Ek Duje Ke Liye Tamilian youth Kamal Hasan, a ignorant of Hindi and Hindi films but sings a song in which several Hindi film titles have been strung together Mere Jeevan Saathi,Pyar Kiye Jaa, jawani diwani,khoobsoorat, ziddi padosan... only a diehard fan of Hindi films could have sung such a song.In Satish Kaushik's Mujhe Kuchh Kehana Hai hero Tushar Kapoor has had only a glimpse of Kareena Kapoor and in frustration meet her singsDard-e-judai ka gham mujhko aur nahin as sehna hai, then take the case of Subhash Ghai's Karz where hero Rishi,a pop singer and dancer sings to Tina Munim  Dard-e-dil dard-e-jigar dil mein jagaya aapne,pehle to main shaayar tha aashiq banaya aapne ; how dancer,all of a sudden,become a shaayar. While praising Zeenat Aman's thick lips,Raj Kapoor in Gopichand Jasoos sings patle patle honth. In Baazigar Shah Rukh Khan sings Ye kaali kaali aankhen,ye gorey gorey gaal... to Kajol who actually has light eyes. In Shakti Samanta's Kashmir Ki Kali hero's colour blindness comes to the fore.Shammi Kapoor singing to Sharmila Tagore Ye chand sa roshan chehra,zulfon ka rang sunehra, ye jheel si neeli aankhen...becomes a news that Sharmila has blue eyes.Incidentally,in another song in the same film he sings for the same heroine Subhan allah haye...hain zulfein ya ghataayen.Obviously ghataayen(Clouds) are black but how the heroin's locks be golden and black hairline in the other.In Kiron Production's Anpadh(1962),the illiterate heroine sings so beautifully Aap ki nazron ne samjha pyar kekabil mujhe... if an illiterate can express her feelings so well then long live illiteracy.Is it not ridiculous? In Raj Kapoor's Prem Rog Rishi Kapoor says pyaar  but the heroine Padmini Kolhapure,says she doesn't know what'sthis but sings Mohabbat hai kya cheez ye humko bataao, ye kis ne shuru ki hamein bhi sunaao,here is a woman who does not know what pyaar  is but knows that pyaar and mohabbat are one and the same thing; what a ignorance! In Jeena sirrf Mere Liye,having no dupatta, the heroine sings  Similarly,in David Dhawan's Sar sar sar se sarka jaayemera lal dupatta...Maine Pyar Kyon Kiya, Shusmita Sen sings Laga laga re prem rog.... chunri lehrayee...though during the song sheis wearing saree not salwar suit with dupatta.In Pankaj Parashar's Tumko Na Bhool Payenge, we have Salman Khan  singing for Sushmita Sen Khanke teri choori,kyoon chhanke teri bindiya, kyoon chhanke teri payal... though the heroine is neither wearing a bindiya nor a payal.In Yash Chopr's Chandani Sridevi has more two dozens of bangles in each wrist but sings Mere haathon mein nau nau chudiyan hain... Similarly, in Kabhi Kabhie heroine Rakhi is wedded to the other hero of thefilm Shashi Kapoor and on the first night of theirs, he requests Rakhi to sing oneof the songs by Amit ,hence the song  Kabhi kabhie mere dil mein khayal aata hai... suhag raat hai ghunghat utha raha hun main... everybody  know  that husband removes the ghunghat not the bride--Amitabh Bachchan, a beloved of college days,sings this song at a college function written in sweet dreams ofher fiancee Rakhi. In Filmistan's Nagin  where hero Pradeep Kumar playing a been and the heroine ,Vyjayanthimala, hypnotised by its sound, sings Tan dole mera man dole,merae dilka haya karaar re, ye kaun bajaya  Bansuriya... In Dharmesh Darshan's Dhadkan there isa song by Nusrat Fateh Ali Khan  Dulhe ka sehra suhana lagta hai...is picturised on the occasion ofShilpa Shetty's wedding has a line Nothingis wrong there unless one considers the fact that the bride's dress is blue and not  surkh jode men chand si dulhan...surkh(red). So what message our film makers want to convey by slipping such mistakes.

RAFI-KISHORE  SAGA
MOHAMMAD Rafi was a classically trained singer while was anaturraly endowed with excellent resonance. The latter was a versatile genius,singer,music director,actor,writer and director all rolled into one. Both were proficient singers but had separate individual styles.In the 1950s, Rafi literally ruled the roost. He was the most favoured singer for veteran composers like Naushad,S.D. Burman,Shankar-Jaikishan,Madan Mohan while Kishore was preferred by S.D.Burman and Salil Choudhuri mainly for Dev Anand and his own films. Rafi on the other hand could balance his melodious voice for diverse stars like Dilip Kumar Dev Anand, Guru Dutt, Rajendra Kumar and Shammi Kapoor.It is astonishing fact the O.P.Nayar used Rafi for KishoreKumar theunforgerrable tune Man Mora Bawra in Ragini in 1957. Shankar-Jaikishan also had Rafi to sing Ajab Hai Dastan in Shararat in 1958.Imagine Rafi sang for Kishore Kumar in films Kishore himself acted.Once Shankar-Jaikishan on kishore hadcommented,"No doubt Kishore is a good singer,sang beautifully for me in Rangoli.The mukhdas and antaras required a singer of Rafi's range and classical background".Kishore felt bad about this,he could only marvel at Rafi's brilliant rendering of the two songs. Rafi characteristically remarked "No one else except Kihore could sing Dukhi Man Mere in Fantoosh so well".Salil Choudhury was not favourably inclined towards Rafi at one point of time,but even he was compelled to use Rafi for the unforgettable Tootey Huey Khuabo Nay in Madhumati and Koi Soney Ke Dil Wala in Maya and confessed thatRafi was indeed peerless.It is generally known that andKishore went through a bad patch in their relationship. Yet it is also true that both like and respected each other. S.D.Burman openly admitted to Kishore that the three solos in Guide by Rafi  couldnot be matched by any singer.On Dev Anand'sspeical request he composed the Kishore-Lata super hit duetGata Rahe Mera Dil for Guide. Similarly Rafi's numbers in Teen Deviyan and the haunting duet wit Lata Mangeshkar inJewl Thief were far superior to theKishore numbers in these films. In the late 60s when R.D.Burman composed the melody for Tum Bin Jaaun Kahan in Pyar ka Mausam he experimented thesamesolo with both Rafi andKishore. True Kishore sang thisnumber by melodiously incorporating his iimitable yodelling. But in the romantic numbner Rafi scored overKishore in melody. The 60s was also considered Rafi's decade though Kishore matured considerably as singer duringthisperiod. The Jungle Mein Mangal number Woh Din Ke Baat Sharan Karo had bot Rafi andKishoretogether but issomehow not remembered that well/ But Shankar-Jaikishan'sHanste Gata Jahan Se Gujarin Andaz by Rafi quite exlipsed Kishore's entire Zindgi Ek Safar in 1971. Madan Mohan also used both Rafi andKishore in the song Yu Na Sharma for Parwana in 1972. Kishore sang the happy rendition for hero Navin Nishchal. But there was Rafi again to do full justicie to there Hansnewale the melencholic aspect of the same song for Amitabh Bachchan. In the 1970s the Kishore wave took the Hindi film music by storm and was backed by R.D.Burman. Some critics felt R.D. was parial to Kishore andavoided using Rafi/ The Rafi Kishore duet Yaadon Ki Barat from the film with the same title in 1973 turned out to be a superhit. But it cannot be categorised either as an exclusive Rafi or a Jishore gem for bothe sang in perfect harmony.  Subsequently R.D. opted for Rafi again after four years as no other singer could have rendered so skillfully Chand Mera Dil and Kya Hua Tera Vaada in Hum Kisi Se Kum Nahin  that too in a film with many Kishore superhits like Mil Gaya and Aa meri Jaan. When Rafi sang Darde Dil for Laxmikant-Pyarelal in Karz in 1980 based on a single not he proved melody  was indeed God Gifted to him. Kishore's Aye Meri Umer Ke Nau Jawanon and Ek Hasina Thi couldnot touch that level. The same can be said for Rajesh Roshan's  where Rafi's YaranaAare Re Aisa Tarana completely surpassed Kishore's Sara Zamana and Terer Jaisa. Above all,Shammi Kapoor's Yahu,Chahe Koi Muje Janglee in Junglee and other tilting songs for him added a feather in Rafi's cap. At some places none was equal to Rafi.O Duniya Ke Rakhwale song for Baiju Bawra made Naushad his Bhakht.

Fear dawns in Bollyood again
WITH Abu Salem's extradition and CBI custody, the beans he has begun to spill once again brings to the fore Bollywood's connection with the crime world.It is said that the don is fascinated by Bollywood.Who isn't? Aren't politicians and industrialists  equally fascinated by the glamour of Bollywood? The underworld's fascination for Bollywood goes back a long time.  I remember seeing Haji Mastan ,in the seventies, at parties ,premiers and muhurats. He and Karim Lala got themselves invited to film  events because they were film fans. Devyani Chaubal the gossip columnist  ofter entered paprties boastfully escorted by Mastan. Haji Mastan even managed to get invited to some ooutdoor location shootings. It was supected that he had a financial stake in those films. But nobody bothered . He was a huge fan of Dilip Kumar bur Dilip tactfully kept himself at a distance. The thespian has his own polite yet firm style of letting a person know that it is thus far and no furtherin reaching out of him. The majority of his fans have understood and respected his need to keep the distance andsecure his privacy. Mastan certainly knew where he stood with Dilip Kumar. Haji Mastan also tried to befirend Raj Kapoor. One newspaper printed a photograph of Raj bending to pick up something with Haji standing by his side.It looked as if Raj was bending to touch Mastan's feet and picture caused considerable embarrassnebt to the Kapoorfamily. Raj was livid. It was said then that Mastan had had the photograph planted in the publicaation. Whatever it was,the industry condemned it and expressed genuuine shockat the attempt to demean Raj. The film Deewar is said to have been inspired by the rags to riched life account of Mastan.The film revealed the other side --Bollywood's fascination with the underworld and the men who commit crime without fear ,guilt or shame and get away with it. The long arm of law grabbing them and nemess catching up with umpteen cliched movies made by Bollywood filmmakers on underworld life since time immemorial, but sadly the don is always the hero in the screenplays. In the eighties one heard of stars going to partieshosted by Dawood Ibrahim,dancing to entertain him and beaming away in photgraphs taken at his Dubai rresidence. The admiration and fascination seemed to be mutual. Following the 1993 serial blasts in Mumbai  the print media published several pictures of Dawood with hisBollywood friends. The film business got a bad reputation and bonafide investors refused to touch films. The Abu Salem story however has a twist. He is apparently fascinated more by the money in the film business than in its superficail glamour. He has been allegedly twisting arms in Bollywood to grab the overseas distribution  rights of films with top star casts. His old acquaintances in Jogeshwari describe him as a star-struck youth who worked hard for a living and dreamed of glory coming to him someday via films. He reportedly probably did his own research  and study  and found out that the route to Bollywood need not necessarily be through ating. His predecessor Haji had done the dame-- he bought theatres in the city andacquired distribution rights of films. The films Salem financed the stars he allegedly  threatened  and coerced to wowrkwith hisgirlfriend Monica Bedi are being  named as also others with whom he allegedly had other businessassociations. Each day since the CBI interrogation began on November 1,2005, has been opening a page,albeit familiar, in the don'scrime book. The day is not far when the star-studded climax will unfold for those who take delight in following such stories.

How do you like my new look?
Let's link up.

Organisation 101: PhD Edition







I'll be honest: I'm not naturally an organised person. I misplace things; I forget the dates of appointments, and misremember the time. So I have to work extra hard to remember where I'm supposed to be and what I'm supposed to be doing, especially now that my week is divded between work and research. 





Laptop. Although it's quite hefty, you'll normally see me lugging around my laptop. This is mainly because I've started using Evernote to take and organise most of my notes.  But it also means I can quickly look up references, order books, and add events to my calendar. 



'To Do' Book. I find I need goals to focus my mind. So I use this grey notebook to make a plan for each week: what I'm aiming to read, topics I want to write about and questions for my supervisors. More importantly, I use this notebook to set five objectives for each day I'm studying. This means when I always have a sense of direction for my research. (On a sidenote, this notebook is really unglamourous. Any suggetsions for a new look? I think gold spots would be nice.)




Bright and Cheerful Diary. I use this for remembering appointments as and when I remember them. (I have an unfortunate habit of completely forgetting important events if I don't write them down!) But, I also use it to keep a record of the hours I work every day. This sounds a bit anal, I know, but hear me out. By keeping an honest record of when I work, I'm able to figure out my lull periods. So far I've learned that my most productive study days start well before 9am. It also means that I have to be a bit more objective about my work. I can see clearly what I've achieved and how hard I've been working. In a long-term project like this, I think that's important.




My mobile. I know, who doesn't carry their mobile? But I do use mine as a study aide too. Sometimes, I find it much easier to snap a picture of a complex diagram to include alongside my notes. Because I'm using Evernote to take my notes, it's easy to take a photo on my phone, and sync it to my work.




Brightly coloured pens. I know, I only have one pen in the picture so this is sort of a cheat. But! It's only because I left my pens at my desk. When I want to clarify ideas, brainstorm, or plan a piece of writing, I find coloured pens are the best way to organise my ideas. I like these because they're fineline and look really pretty. 





Do you have any tips for keeping organised? What are your must-haves?



On [not] Blogging

It makes sense to talk about why I'm blogging. What I'll blog 
about, what I'm hoping to gain from it, what I'm hoping the reader will 
gain from it. These are all good places to start. 



Except
 this isn't where I'm starting. The eagle-eyed among you may have 
noticed that this is my third post. The even more eagle-eyed among you 
may notice that I actually registered this blog months and months ago and that I haven't really posted since then. 



I
 would love to say that it's because I've been super busy leading the 
glamorous life of the part-time student. But I don't think anyone would 
buy that. Instead, I haven't 
blogged for one main reason: I'm terrified. I'm terrified that what I 
have to say isn't important enough. I'm scared that people won't like 
what they read. I'm scared that my writing won't be eloquent, and that 
people think what I'm saying is stupid. I'm worried that people will 
think I'm stupid.



I think it's 
interesting that the list of things that scares me about blogging is similar to the list of things that scares me about doing a PhD.



Of
 course, with blogging, there are other things that might make me not 
good enough. My photography is mediocre at best: I don't have the money 
for a DSLR, or Photoshop. (Unfunded graduate student here, hi!) If I 
take photos of myself, I'm not that photogenic. Or comfortable in front 
of a camera. Or sure what I could achieve. 



But
 even though a PhD and a blog present vastly different challenges, at 
the root of my fear, there lies exactly the same thing: perfectionism. 
I've always been redundantly obsessed with getting it right, to the extent that at school I used to re-copy out pages in my exercise book if I'd messed something up.



I'm
 trying my best to combat my perfectionism in my thesis by writing a lot
 of unpolished things and -- here's the scary part -- actually sending 
it to my supervisors. So, why am I letting the blog defeat me? Why is 
writing something on the internet that (let's be frank) not many people 
are going to see more scary than early thesis work?



Well,
 in answer to your questions, self: 1) I will not let the blog defeat me
 and 2) Blogging isn't scarier than writing. So this post is a start. I don't know what what this 
blog is going to be or where it's going to go. But I know that I want to
 document this process, de-mystify it. And I do know that I can 
contribute to that desire, one post at a time. 


So, consider this step one.



Bristol Super Heroes


COMING SOON!













Green Skies: It Begins....








Our Class
We have fun playing games like Snap, Bingo, I-spy, Snakes & Ladders and computer games. We read books and write, make leters and say rhymes.Go to Word Games for some good games to play at home.

Blogging
It is fascinating to note how many schools are using blogging in their classrooms.Rachel Boyd in Nelson has her children using this form of communication. Great what is happening here.Teachertube.com is a great source of information for teachers.There is a series of videos explaining about setting up blogs in the classroom. This is very useful to help teachers get blogs going in their classrooms.Setting up a blogger account Part 1 - linking your blog Part 2 - linking your blog Part 3 - linking your blog Part 4 - Linking your blog: Wonderful to be able to do so much PD from the comfort of your own home.....

Opinions on blogging
An interesting blog which has been completed in 2004 as part of a course deals with blogging. An interesting read for those interested in blogging. Food for thought.

Podcasting
How do we use audio podcasting in our classroom...I found this on teachertube.com  

Blogging to disseminate best online learning practices and technology
Schroeder (2005) argues that faculty members find it difficult to find time to keep up with all the different technologies and in particular the 'changes in this evolving area of best practices in online and distance learning'.I feel like this!!! He encourages the use of blogs in distance education to enhance the learning. He has been using squawkbox.tv to enable easy feedback and on-going discussions on the blog. I must check this one out.

The case against blogging:
This was written in 2005Friday, July 8, 2005Bloggers Need Not ApplyBy Ivan TribbleWhat is it with job seekers who also write blogs? Our recent faculty search at Quaint Old College resulted in a number of bloggers among our semifinalists. Those candidates looked good enough on paper to merit a phone interview, after which they were still being seriously considered for an on-campus interview.That's when the committee took a look at their online activity.In some cases, a Google search of the candidate's name turned up his or her blog. Other candidates told us about their Web site, even making sure we had the URL so we wouldn't fail to find it. In one case, a candidate had mentioned it in the cover letter. We felt compelled to follow up in each of those instances, and it turned out to be every bit as eye-opening as a train wreck.Don't get me wrong: Our initial thoughts about blogs were, if anything, positive. It was easy to imagine creative academics carrying their scholarly activity outside the classroom and the narrow audience of print publications into a new venue, one more widely available to the public and a tech-savvy student audience.We wanted to hire somebody in our stack of finalists, so we gave the same -- or more -- benefit of the doubt to the bloggers as to the others in the pool.A candidate's blog is more accessible to the search committee than most forms of scholarly output. It can be hard to lay your hands on an obscure journal or book chapter, but the applicant's blog comes up on any computer. Several members of our search committee found the sheer volume of blog entries daunting enough to quit after reading a few. Others persisted into what turned out, in some cases, to be the dank, dark depths of the blogger's tormented soul; in other cases, the far limits of techno-geekdom; and in one case, a cat better off left in the bag.The pertinent question for bloggers is simply, Why? What is the purpose of broadcasting one's unfiltered thoughts to the whole wired world? It's not hard to imagine legitimate, constructive applications for such a forum. But it's also not hard to find examples of the worst kinds of uses.A blog easily becomes a therapeutic outlet, a place to vent petty gripes and frustrations stemming from congested traffic, rude sales clerks, or unpleasant national news. It becomes an open diary or confessional booth, where inward thoughts are publicly aired.Worst of all, for professional academics, it's a publishing medium with no vetting process, no review board, and no editor. The author is the sole judge of what constitutes publishable material, and the medium allows for instantaneous distribution. After wrapping up a juicy rant at 3 a.m., it only takes a few clicks to put it into global circulation.We've all done it -- expressed that way-out-there opinion in a lecture we're giving, in cocktail party conversation, or in an e-mail message to a friend. There is a slight risk that the opinion might find its way to the wrong person's attention and embarrass us. Words said and e-mail messages sent cannot be retracted, but usually have a limited range. When placed on prominent display in a blog, however, all bets are off.So, to the job seekers.Professor Turbo Geek's blog had a presumptuous title that was easy to overlook, as we see plenty of cyberbravado these days in the online aliases and e-mail addresses of students and colleagues.But the site quickly revealed that the true passion of said blogger's life was not academe at all, but the minutiae of software systems, server hardware, and other tech exotica. It's one thing to be proficient in Microsoft Office applications or HTML, but we can't afford to have our new hire ditching us to hang out in computer science after a few weeks on the job.Professor Shrill ran a strictly personal blog, which, to the author's credit, scrupulously avoided comment about the writer's current job, coworkers, or place of employment. But it's best for job seekers to leave their personal lives mostly out of the interview process.It would never occur to the committee to ask what a candidate thinks about certain people's choice of fashion or body adornment, which countries we should invade, what should be done to drivers who refuse to get out of the passing lane, what constitutes a real man, or how the recovery process from one's childhood traumas is going. But since the applicant elaborated on many topics like those, we were all ears. And we were a little concerned. It's not our place to make the recommendation, but we agreed a little therapy (of the offline variety) might be in order.Finally we come to Professor Bagged Cat. He was among the finalists we brought to campus for an interview, which he royally bombed, so we were leaning against him anyway. But we were irritated to find out, late in the process, that he had misrepresented his research, ostensibly to make it seem more relevant to a hot issue in the news lately. For privacy reasons, I'm not going to go into the details, but we were dismayed to find a blog that made clear that the candidate's research was not as independent or relevant as he had made it seem.We felt deceived by his overstatement of his academic expertise. In this case, it was not the candidate's own blog, but that of a boasting friend, that revealed the truth. The lesson? Be careful what you let a close associate's blog say about you. What that associate sees as complimentary may cast you in an unflattering light in the eyes of a search committee.Job seekers who are also bloggers may have a tough road ahead, if our committee's experience is any indication.You may think your blog is a harmless outlet. You may use the faulty logic of the blogger, "Oh, no one will see it anyway." Don't count on it. Even if you take your blog offline while job applications are active, Google and other search engines store cached data of their prior contents. So that cranky rant might still turn up.The content of the blog may be less worrisome than the fact of the blog itself. Several committee members expressed concern that a blogger who joined our staff might air departmental dirty laundry (real or imagined) on the cyber clothesline for the world to see. Past good behavior is no guarantee against future lapses of professional decorum.A colleague from a different university provides this cautionary tale: After graduation, a student goes to the far side of the world to teach English. Student sends delightful travelogue home via e-mail messages, and recipients encourage student to record rare experiences in a blog. A year passes and the blog turns into a detailed personal gripe session about the job, students, coworkers, and place of employment. It is discovered and devoured by students, coworkers, and place of employment. Shamed student turns for support to alma-mater faculty members, who read the blog and chastise student for lack of professionalism and for tainting alma mater's reputation. Student now seeks other job -- without letters of recommendation from current employer or alma mater.Not every case is so consequential. And in truth, we did not disqualify any applicants based purely on their blogs. If the blog was a negative factor, it was one of many that killed a candidate's chances.More often that not, however, the blog was a negative, and job seekers need to eliminate as many negatives as possible.We all have quirks. In a traditional interview process, we try our best to stifle them, or keep them below the threshold of annoyance and distraction. The search committee is composed of humans, who know that the applicants are humans, too, who have those things to hide. It's in your interest, as an applicant, for them to stay hidden, not laid out in exquisite detail for all the world to read. If you stick your foot in your mouth during an interview, no one will interrupt to prevent you from doing further damage. So why risk doing it many times over by blabbing away in a blog?We've seen the hapless job seekers who destroy the good thing they've got going on paper by being so irritating in person that we can't wait to put them back on a plane. Our blogger applicants came off reasonably well at the initial interview, but once we hung up the phone and called up their blogs, we got to know "the real them" -- better than we wanted, enough to conclude we didn't want to know more.Ivan Tribble is the pseudonym of a humanities professor at a small liberal-arts college in the Midwest.What do others think?Dave Cormier has done a slide show:Blogs, not 'if' but when and where - check it out.

Amazon Coupons -  Sony DVPSR660P DVD Player (Black) - 26% Off
Get 26% off on Amazon.in. Buy  Sony DVPSR660P DVD Player (Black)  at Rs. 2450 only




Store name: Amazon.in
Product name:  Sony DVPSR660P DVD Player (Black)
Offer Price: Rs. 2450

Click here to buy

Flipkart Deals - Apple 16GB iPad - 23% Off

Get 23% off on Flipkart.com. Buy Apple 16GB iPad with Retina Display and Wi-Fi Cellular at Rs. 30,499 only




Store name: Flipkart.com
Product name: Apple 16GB iPad with Retina Display and Wi-Fi Cellular
Offer Price: Rs. 30,099

Click here to buy








GREETINGS TO DA WORLD! LE COMES MY FIRST POST! ^^

So... just had the first week of uni of my life hehe X)

Twas fun, made a lot of new friendss! :D

Anyways, this is officially my first post.... of many more to come! Decided to actually you know make a step to the blogging world now as I made my blogger profile back in Feb last year and I have always wanted to blog but just never get to it cos of school and stuffs :3 SO HERE I AM! :D READY TO ACCOMPLISH MY DREAM GOAL HAHA XDD

Sit back and hopefully y'all enjoy hehe! :D

Want to know more about me, click here :)

Love,
Velene xoxoxo






Being hurt by the truth is better than 
comforted by the lies.


Mindful stillness
 In stillness, you come to yourself. You claim your autonomy. I don't mean the drugged stillness of someone hypnotised by a TV. I mean an alert stillness as practiced in mindfulness.   You can practice stillness by sitting on a chair or a cushion and setting a period of time aside for this work.  Or you can watch out for what might be called accidental opportunities for stillness. You might be sitting on a bus or a train, at your desk or in a waiting room and use this as an accidental opportunity to cultivate stillness.   In stillness you step out of the conversation in your head. You place your attention on the feeling of your body at rest.  In particular I think it is helpful to notice your hands.  Let your hands be still and just notice them. Notice their warmth.  As you notice them, they will almost certainly become warmer.  And notice your breathing.  Notice your tummy, your diaphragm as you breathe. Through this noticing you cultivate stillness.   That is all you have to do.  Stillness is so simple and yet many of us fail to benefit from it.  In a busy world it is possible even to feel you are doing something subversive when you practice stillness. Perhaps the stillness police will to tap on your shoulder and issue you with a fine for failing to be busy enough!   Yes, stillness police exist - mostly inside our own heads. Our own anxieties, allowed to scamper around our minds like chattering monkeys, assure us that the world will end if we practice stillness in the middle of the day.    At times, we fall very naturally into stillness.  People who are in love can be still with each other, look into each other's eyes for ages and find the whole experience very agreeable indeed. A parent can experience a wonderful sense of stillness holding a sleeping baby.    Even crowds can be still. Think of the crowd at a football match when a crucial penalty is about to be taken.  You may have experienced stillness in the theatre or at a concert.  So stillness is not a strange, esoteric thing.  Stillness is your heritage. Claim it in mindfulness.    Practice: From time to time, notice opportunities for stillness. In particular notice the stillness in your hands. Step out of the conversation in your mind to practice stillness even if only for half a minute.My book Light Mind - Mindfulness for Daily Living is published by Veritas. Click on "more details" to read a sample chapter. For monthly mindfulness exercises, email me at pomorainATgmx.com (replace the AT with @) and I will put you on the mailing list for my free newsletter. 

Mindfulness and the appreciation of happiness
I have met people who refuse to be happy because happiness doesn't last. They go into a sulk and refuse to have anything to do with it. They would rather be miserable all the time than happy some of the time.Mindfulness doesn't guarantee happiness. However, it can increase your appreciation of your own happiness when happiness comes to call. Think of happiness as a visitor who comes into your home, stays for a while, then goes away about its business. But though you are sorry to see it go, you know it will come back again.The next time you notice you are happy, be glad and make a space for it. When you find yourself ignoring your visitor and going off into some story of resentment or fear in your head, come back gently to your experience of happiness. Just check in that it's still there and, if it is, enjoy it.Mindfulness, the practice of returning again and again to awareness of your experience, will help you to do this. It will help you to enjoy your happiness while it is with you and, with luck, it will prolong its stay. But one hour or day you will notice that happiness has gone off. Relax. It will return. Your job is to notice it when it comes back and to give it your attention.For monthly mindfulness exercises, email me at pomorainATgmx.com (replace the AT with @) and I will put you on the mailing list for my free newsletter.

Doctors using mindfulness to beat burnout
Doctors use mindfulness to beat burnout and to gain other side-effect benefits such as boosting empathy with patients according to this post on the Mindful Coaching blog.For monthly mindfulness practices, get my free email newsletter. To subscribe, email me at pomorainATgmx.com (replace AT with @) and I'll add you to the mailing list. 

2010 Six Nations Rebels video Part 1
Here's a video from the Six Nations Rebels

All about the Mann Cup
Thanks to TVCogeco, here is a piece they did on the history of the Mann Cup.

Bling bling
With its roster set and ready to defend its NLL championship, the Washington Stealth are ready to get their hands on the championship rings they earned in 2010.
Here's a sneak peak at what they look like. Pretty impressive.


Hi Class, please give me your reflection of our visit to Gardens by the Bay. Last but not good luck for your Common Test!

Business Cards
I made a quick concept of a business card (on easyprint.co.uk), and ordered some.

I was considering hand printing them, but then most of my work is digital, so I figured it would just be easier and cheaper to use an online supplier like Easy Print.







The main idea I had was that the cards should be like little postcards, with all the information on the back, encouraging people to hold onto them longer than they would a regular business card.

Expanding internet presence
Aside from my online portfolio, I have made a tumblr as well. There is not as much on there, but I'm working towards slowly building up a small following and offering commissions.






http://tomdanieljones.tumblr.com/


Group Exhibition - Poster




Online Portfolio
Before I made this, all of my previous work was in an unorganized mess over at http://tomdjones.blogspot.co.uk/. There was no quality control, I simply uploaded all of my work up there regardless of how good it was. With this new portfolio I'm sticking with what I feel are my best pieces, it wont be cluttered up with old essays and it's easier to navigate the entire body of work.





http://tomdjones.carbonmade.com/projects/5219672#1


#10 Dokuro Chan Class doodles o(?o?)o








And more doodles...And you would see why I was bored T^T The lesson was too easy and I stopped making notes...












 VIDEO INAYOMUONYESHA MUIGIZAJI WA BONGO MOVIE (SHAMSA FORD ) AKIJIFUNGUA YAVUJA
 VIDEO INAYOMUONYESHA MUIGIZAJI WA BONGO MOVIE (SHAMSA FORD ) AKIJIFUNGUA YAVUJA

 WACHEZAJI 23 WAITWA STARS KUIKABILI MOROCCO BADAE ...
 WACHEZAJI 23 WAITWA STARS KUIKABILI MOROCCO BADAE ...: Kocha  Mkuu wa Taifa Stars, Kim Poulsen ametaja wachezaji 23 watakaoingia  kambini Jumamosi (Machi 16 mwaka huu) jijini Dar es Salaam k...

 BETTY NA BOLT WANASWA TENA WAKIVUNJA AMRI YA SITA NDANI YA JUMBA LA BIG BROTHER!!
 BETTY NA BOLT WANASWA TENA WAKIVUNJA AMRI YA SITA NDANI YA JUMBA LA BIG BROTHER!!

D'JARO ARUNGU: Haya kweli maajabu ya dunia,omba yasikukute!!
D'JARO ARUNGU: Haya kweli maajabu ya dunia,omba yasikukute!!

Fabric
Here's a sample of some of the fabric I have for sale:

2.75 yard Sweater knit $23


2 yards Double knit $15


2.5 yards Panne velour $18


2.75 yards Floral jacquard $22


2.75 yards Sweater knit $16.50 (the stripes are a lot sparklier then they show up here)


2.5 yards Sweater knit $18

1 3/4 yards Plaid Boucle $12 (I have this in a pink as well)

Honey is in now!
For all you who have been patiently waiting, I now have honey back in stock in two sizes.

*New Prices*

The 1kg container is $12 and 3kg pail is $36.

Winter Fabric In Now 
*Winter Fabric is now in!

*Lots of fabric discounted 20% or more. Get it before it's gone!

*Candles and candle holders are still 50% off.

Come check it out!

Fabric...
New knits are in! Come check it out...

Free Gift with Purchase
Buy $30 of product and get a free gift!
*while supplies last

Falmouth private tours!
knowjamaica tours at the moment is not competing with it's competitors because we are in a class by ourslev's as we are exclusively providing private tours from Falmouth trelawny jamaica.
There are alot a travelers who don't want to sit around and wait around on others, when they could be on their way,
basically we are say total flexibility is the order of the day when you have limited time to really get to know Jamaica.
Jamaica is one of the favorite place for people taking a western cruise, so we try to accomodate those who really want to see,feel,taste and indulge in our culture.
check us out @ www.falmouthprivateguide.com for the best of transportation & tours throughout Jamaica.
www.knowjamaica.com

DVD News
The new DVD from comedian Richard Herring is available to buy from here and in the shops. It is best to buy it from GFS though, as because they are an indie label, they need our help to keep going.On the GFS version of Hitler Moustache, you get three discs of features including as an Easter egg on disc three, my interview with Richard from backstage at the Nottingham Playhouse in January.

New Radio Series
  I will be presenting a four part series paying tribute to the legendary C81 and C86 cassettes, that were given away with the NME in 1981 and 1986 (hence the titles). The first show, C81 Side One, is broadcast on Monday 4th April at around ten o'clock.

Steve Oliver's Covermount Cassette Show
In the last newsletter I mentioned my four part series based on the NME tapes C81 and C86. These short programmes are now expanding into a permanent series. Steve Oliver's Covermount Cassette Show broadcasts on Monday night at 10pm on Sherwood Radio. If you missed it then it is available as a podcast here. 

Back On Radio
I am pleased to announce that I will be returning to radio, on the Internet station Trent Sound. There won't be a lot of difference between the new show and the old Sherwood Radio show, although I am bringing in a few changes to keep everything fresh. The high standard of music will remain; the best selection of unsigned bands, alternative classics, punk, ska, reggae, rockabilly... the list goes on. Basically, anything good, an intelligent and eclectic blend of music you won't hear on your bland commercial 'same six songs, all day long' local radio shows, or Radio 1. In addition to the music, there will also be classic comedy clips and live bands in session. A new twist will be that I will be joined by a different guest co-host every week, that I have personally invited, from the worlds of creativity. The twitter hashtag #steveradio will be re-introduced, and for those of you who haven't joined twitter yet (it is 2011, what is wrong?), there will be a facebook page. This will open on the day itself. The Oliver Sessions blog, and youtube channel, will be brought out of mothballs for use on the new station. If there are any features from the old show that you would like to see come back, (no promises), then let me know and I may consider it. The show is Sunday nights, from 9pm to 11pm, starting on September 11th.  

Christmas Musings Available Now
A good reason to ask Santa for a kindle, my new book Christmas Musings is available to download now. If you're buying a kindle for a loved one, why not pre-load it with both of my titles?More titles to come over the course of next year, only on kindle. At a price that's right!Christmas Musings is available from hereMusings is available from here

A first post
A warning, first, that this blog is meant to be temporary.  It's part of a class I'm taking through the Medical Library Association on Web 2.0 for Libraries.So what is Web 2.0?Well, of course I looked it up on Wikipedia. and found this definition:Web 2.0 is a trend in World Wide Web technology, and web design, a second generation of web-based communities and hosted services such as social-networking sites, wikis, blogs, and folksonomies, which aim to facilitate creativity, collaboration, and sharing among users. The term became notable after the first O'Reilly Media Web 2.0 conference in 2004. Although the term suggests a new version of the World Wide Web, it does not refer to an update to any technical specifications, but to changes in the ways software developers and end-users use webs. According to Tim O'Reilly:Web 2.0 is the business revolution in the computer industry caused by the move to the Internet as platform, and an attempt to understand the rules for success on that new platform. Since blogs are part of the Web 2.0 experience, part of our first assignment was to create one.  Now, I'm no stranger to blogs.  I've had one since 2001, at http://rabid-librarian.blogspot.com.  But that's for my own personal musings with a little library-related stuff along the way.  I'm interested in how to put blogs to use for reaching library users and in using other Web 2.0 components to do the same, hence the class. (Plus, it was free and worth 8 hours of continuing education credit.) :)  So here you go, the first post. Yay.

So we're up to wikis...
I've started a wiki called 'Rabid for 2.0' at WetPaint.  There's a link to it and to the MLA class wiki on my blogroll.So what are the differences between blogs?  Whilst more than one person can contribute to a blog, they're meant as posts, much like news articles.  Wikis, on the other hand, allow for total collaboration.  They are a good way to disseminate information because 1) there's a certain shared authority, 2) everyone contributes a little to the whole, and 3) the results can be viewed like a regular web page rather than scrolling through lots of blog posts.  Blogs are better for announcements or sharing links through a blogroll.  Wikis are better for providing information that is meant to stay up in one place but can still be dynamic rather than static, such as policies, hours of operation, procedures, that sort of thing.  This can be really useful for a library, as various staff members can work on the project and provide users with information, but they themselves can see what's up there, what needs to be changed, a history of edits, and generally not work at cross purposes but build something worthwhile.

So what do you do with RSS?
I've been using Google Reader for a little over a week now.  It's not the first time I've used an aggregator, but it's the first portable, online one I've used, and I love it.  The only trouble I've had is occasionally David Rothman's blog freezes up Internet Explorer.  I'm not quite sure why, but the glitch seems to have resolved.  What I've done is subscribe to the class blog and comments, several library-related and library news-related sites, a PubMed search for medical library-related research, table of contents for the Journal of the American Medical Association and the New England Journal of Medicine, plus a few fun ones--word-of-the-day, weird news, and a newsletter from the publisher of Call of Cthulhu, a game I play.  I did subscribe to our local paper but I was getting over a thousand stories a day, mostly sports, which I didn't feel like reading.  Oh, and I included my blogs to see how they come out on a feed.  Fortunately it's easy to browse to find the ones to subscribe AND unsubscribe when you want.  Because I'm using both Google Reader and Blogger, I can marked some stories as 'Shared' and have them display on my blogs using the widget you see on this page.So, now to my assignment.  What would I use RSS for in my library?  For me professionally, it gives me instant access to a great deal of discussion on trends and tools that help me keep current in the field.  I'd like to set up a library one for my patrons that would do the same in terms of orthopaedics, physical therapy, paediatrics, nursing, and other fields.  By putting them in folders, the user can choose what she or he would like to read.  I'd included those journals I could find that offer table-of-contents service through RSS, much like JAMA and the NEJM do.  I'd like to put a link to it on the hospital intranet, once I can get a library page put there.  Most of the professionals have internet access, so I think it could be a useful addition.  Our intranet pages are actually set up a lot like a wiki, although only certain people can edit them.  It's not in the final stages yet, but it looks promising.Anyway, those are my thoughts of using RSS in my library.  I'm thinking about running a class to promote various Web 2.0 technologies to my users and get their feedback.  But I still have a lot to learn first. :)

Up to social networking
I signed up for Facebook tonight.  I found someone I knew in high school and sent a request to her to be a Facebook friend.  She sent me zombies.  I'm still not sure what the etiquette is about dealing with zombies, so I let them be, rather than passing them on.  My Facebook profile can be viewed.  For those of you in the class, feel free to request me as a friend.I have a MySpace page already, so I have a little experience there.Here's the questions we were asked...How can social networking be used by MLA to connect membersIt's easy to make connexions using social networking, so long as people are willing to participate.  It's just a matter of clicking to send a friend request.  If you have a centralised site for the MLA in terms of MySpace, that probably makes it easier.  I'm not familiar enough with Facebook yet to know how best to go about using it specifically to help connect MLA, but once they are connected, it's fun to see differences and similarities...something far beyond just a name and contact info.Should your library have a Facebook or MySpace page?I think there's definitely an audience for public libraries.  I don't know about hospital or medical ones.  So much of the social networking arena is blocked by our tech departments, I don't know how useful it would be.Are there privacy concerns for individuals when using social networking sites?Of course, especially about minors, but they're the same as anywhere you go online--don't post information you wouldn't want you worst enemy to see.  Simple as that!What did you like or not like about your experience with Facebook or MySpace?  I really like the applications they have, some just fun, some really useful.  I did go into the zombie application and accidentally bit Bart Ragon, only to find that he is a super zombie lord with several zombies under him. :)

Ever wonder what a proto-librarian looks like?
    reading   Originally uploaded by eilir This is me at age 13 or 14.  I was always an avid reader (especially of fantasy), but I never really considered being a librarian until I'd graduated from college, gone through a divorce, and realised I didn't know what I wanted to be when I grew up.  Back when this picture was taken, I wanted to be an optometrist.  I'd probably make a lot more money, but I love what I do now, too.This week we're working on photo sharing, using services like flickr.com.There are some great things about using a photo sharing site.  One, you don't have to have your own server or pay someone to host.  A lot of free websites won't let you host pictures in your space due to bandwidth issues, for example.  This way, you get to populate your blogs, websites, and other pages with pictures easily.You can also share a picture easily among friends, family, co-workers, etc.  So, you can post that picture you took at the conference, put it on your website, and tell people all about it.  You can tag (creating a folksonomy) and organise photos as well to find them easier.  And you can comment on other people's pictures. :)I can see flickr as especially great for small libraries that may not have banks of servers at their disposal.  It's also good for networking with colleagues and putting a face onto the library for patrons, humanising it if you will.That's all I can think of right now, but I'm sure there are lots of other uses out there.  I need to read some of my colleagues' blogs and get their ideas.

IMTS business done at India Post Offices & its improvement



















NIGHT IN Diamantes
NightAustere, mysteriousSoaking, progressing, intensifyingIsolated, elusive, transitional, solemnRevealing, self-delighting, radiatingEffulgent, sunnyDay





EYES....



To prey

I open my whole self

To earth

To sky

To sun

To moon

Like an eagle

I circle in rounds

Nudge hearts like little worms

Wriggle, delve into them

Crystallize

Mingle with

another kohled  

Cloying

Set of luscious eyes

With no words

No sounds

Drench myself

In  

Whirlpool of love





As I set love, ablaze 

Loneliness undulates

Boredom ends

Ecstasy shimmers

Like dancing fireflies

Flickerng fire of love

I fly and dance

I suckle the wind

I lay in love, and

My impression begins 

Small scenes

Embroider

Tiny gold moons

into my skin; but...

Something snaps inside me

Reasons fill my cavities 

The wisdom ruins the spell

Holds me still...



Succumbi

A thought on sleeping bags...
Except for those going to icy places, camping or who have a lovely landy in which they are going to be travelling, few have place for a sleeping bag in their bags. I realised this when I went on my meditation retreat... takes up the whole bottom portion of my backpack. Into this space I could instead pack : 1 x pair of hiking boots; all my socks and underware; 2 x shors AND 2 x skirt; an assortment of toiletries and other odds and ends... there may have also been food in their.

So final decisions... I shall not insert sleeping bag into said backpack for said walkabout. Apparently what I need it a travel sheet. Now I want to know, wont a normal double bed sheet do??

first step...
here's to the discovery of a poet =) i wrote this poem during my quiet time @ american cemetery, the fort. dedicated to my first love, God. ~~~*~~~  

goals for next year
edwin: haaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaayver: i gotta get to bed soon tootess: aba si Eedwin: hanggang ngayon di ko pa naisip kung ano goal ko edwin: next year tess: sige isip kaedwin: parang ayoko na lang nga mag goal kasi nde naman nangyayareedwin: kasi goal ako ng goal before wala rin namanedwin: parang naisip ko bahala na lang si God next year tess: nakuedwin: pero excited ako next yearedwin: not that i'm having a bad heartedwin: siguro kung may goal man ako 3 langtess: nakstess: nang iinggit ka haedwin: to be dating, to be fruitful (1), to work out my finances edwin: yan langtess: hmmmedwin: ay mi isa pa edwin: the most important one! tess: ahaedwin: to be faithful to God! tess: amentess: naksedwin: yan lang... edwin: tamang tama edwin: yan lalagay ko sa blog ko tess: kinacareer mo na talagaedwin: hehehe ;) nakaisip ako ng di oras ahtess: he he he ~~~*~~~ my goals for next year, yey! "Commit to the LORD whatever you do, and your plans will succeed." -Proverbs 16:3 

quote for today
Success without honor is an unseasoned dish; it will satisfy your hunger, but it won't taste good. - Joe Paterno

$1 Movie & Games - RedBox
$1 Movie & Games - RedBox






$1 Movie & Games - RedBox





Rent- Movies










- Games














Wii
Xbox360
PS3


Reserve your DVD or Game here:http://www.redbox.com/

If you have a serious desire of entertainment.

Another Man falls to a pretty face.
Another Man falls to a pretty face.
VERY FUNNY ..... FUNNY.














Watch it here:




Enjoy some "FAIL" videos:








Best Show on TV - Top Gear
Best Show on TV - Top Gear
Where else can you see a Bugatti Veyron vs. Eurofighter Typhoon.










Best Show on TV - Top Gear









Where else can you see a Bugatti Veyron vs. Eurofighter Typhoon.

Check here for time in your area.www.bbcamerica.com/shows/topgear/index.jsp

Watch Online here:www.casttv.com/shows/top-gear
Sources:
www.bbcamerica.com/shows/topgear/index.jsp

My First Ever Sale!!!
It's taken some time for me to get started 'cos I tend to make jewellery just for fun. BUT after suggestions from several friends, I finally decided to see if I could actually sell some stuff - to other friends.Turns out that in this world of ready-to-wear, CUSTOM is the way to go. Not that it's exactly an issue with me, since EVERY piece I make is one-of-a-kind.I'm only into the idea of 'fashion as wearable art', so no replications for me!!!So here's the first two pieces I've ever sold...and definitely custom made...A gorgeous purple beaded necklace for my friend Gloria...and a bracelet for my friend and neighbour Keely.Both these pieces incorporate the latest in jeweller trends, swarovski crystals!!!   Oddly enough, my dad prefers crystals to actual gem stones - he actually seems to have a point now...you just can't get that same sparkle with anything other than crystals...

Cross Stitch Bananza
It turns out that I have been on something of a cross stitch haitus for many years.

This is surprising given my obsession with crafting and the fact that it was one of the first crafty things I ever learned to do.

So after my mum found a cross stitch bookmark that I had started making in primary school and then left lying around, I finally decided to finish it with the help of a google search re suitable sized designs. It does make me wonder how it would have looked had I finished it 16 years ago without the aid of the internet....

So I guess it was also a really good thing that there are now big crafty shops like Lincraft around for me to get hold of supplies...

To save money, I decided to get a tapestry threads kit and was recommended to get a size 20 tapestry needle for a 14 thread count (?).



I am very proud of myself for finally finishing this. Like with my seed bead items, I also fixed the loose threads at the back with a little clear nail varnish...

NB: the parts that I did when I was 8 is my initials, the border, the flower (snowdrop - my favourite at the time) and the bunny...I added designs of things that I remember myself liking at that time...



1991 Chicago Bulls Detroit Pistons Summary http://t.co/0evIPSy via @youtube http://ping.fm/JeZfZ


1991 Chicago Bulls Detroit Pistons Summary http://t.co/0evIPSy via @youtube http://ping.fm/JeZfZ http://ping.fm/nnDDd


227's YouTube Chili' Derrick Rose Chicago Bulls NBA 2011 MVP Mix: The Chicago Bull's Point G... http://bit.ly/lA0g6... http://ping.fm/fmIAn


227's YouTube Chili' Derrick Rose Chicago Bulls NBA 2011 MVP Mix: The Chicago Bull's Point G... http://bit.ly/lA0g6... http://ping.fm/6UAnK


227's YouTube Chili' Derrick Rose: One-Man Fast Break: Derrick Rose beats the Heat down the ... http://bit.ly/iixTy... http://ping.fm/33vzN

A Day in the life... Of an English Teacher in South Korea

So as the title of this post says I will talk about a day in my life here in South Korea. I want to do a fairly typical day, nothing too special for this post. Maybe later I will write one about the weekend or going on a trip. 

7:00 am
I wake up and check my phone because there are a bunch of notifications from everyone home. Next I get dressed and make tea. I'm lazy in the morning and have time at work so I grab a yogurt cup to take to work (also there are snacks in my office so I just steal some of those).

8:05 am - 8:10 am
Depending which school I'm at that week I either leave right around 8 or a bit after. I walk to work, it's not to far to walk to Bansong, but Bongrim is further away, I might start busing there instead it's practically a half hour walk. The weather is good most days, I think there have been less than a handful of rainy days here so far, and it's warmer than I'm used to at home so walking is nice. I also like that I can walk to work again, I missed walking when I moved out my apartment in Victoria.

8:30 am - 8:35 am
I arrive at work a few minutes before I'm supposed to be there (8:40) and I start up my computer, check my schedule to see what class I have first and check the textbook or lesson plan to see what lesson we're teaching that day and what materials I will need for it (although the co-teacher takes care of getting materials, it's still useful to know what's going to happen and what I have to work with). Then I just go on the computer, talk to my co-workers and eat my yogurt.

9:00 am/10:00 am - 12:30/1:20pm
When I work at Bongrim I start class at 9 am everyday, but at Bansong I start a little bit later and it changes depending on the schedule. I either go to class with my Korean teacher or meet them in their classroom (again depends on the class). There are many students in the halls at Bansong so they often test out their English on me. I start teaching class, greet the students, go through our lesson for the day and then maybe do an activity or game. I have class right up to lunchtime with ten minutes in between each class. I have three or four classes before lunch depending on the day and school. Most days I teach 3-5 classes.

12:30/1:20 pm - 1:00/1:50 pm
Lunch time! This is my favourite, maybe because I'm lazy in the morning and don't eat very much breakfast or maybe because I never know what we are having for lunch. The teachers eat in the cafeteria with students. At Bansong teachers line up with the students and the cafeteria ladies serve us. Lunch always has rice, soup and some kind of kimchi usually radish or cabbage, then some other vegetable dish and a main dish, but the rice, soup and kimchi never change they are staples of the Korean meal. The other day my co-worker told me that the school has a nutritionist who plans the meals of the month and the cafeteria ladies make and serve it. There are in fact actual cafeteria ladies. They wear little white outfits with caps, rainboots, and aprons. At bongrim the teachers serve themselves lunch, I always take a little too much. Lunch is a time for teachers to relax. They chat in Korean and sometimes English, lots of the other teachers like to ask me how I like the food and why I can eat kimchi, Koreans are surprised that I eat it so easily and I am so good at using the chopsticks.

1/1:50 - 2:50/3 pm - 4:40pm
When I have an after lunch class it is right away. If I don't have an after lunch class I go to my office and spend the rest of the afternoon sitting at the computer, working on lesson plans, thinking of ideas for classes, talking to other teachers and generally desk warming. Usually if my co-teacher at Bansong needs me to go do anything this is the time we do it, Korean's call it a business trip. On Wednesday's the teachers play volleyball or go do something together off campus as teacher bonding time. This week we had dinner at a Korean BBQ restaurant, it was delicious and there was tons of food. I hadn't been that full in a long time.

4:40 pm
Home time! I also walk home. I stop at either Top Mart (a korean grocery store that seems to be popular and is near my house) or a smaller grocery or convenience store on the way home. I buy dinner ingredients if I don't have anything, and sometimes if I do as well. I often end up with random food or snack items that look interesting, but I'm not sure what they, in all honesty I buy candy or those ice cream bars I keep posting. If I have plans with friends I won't stop to buy groceries so I can spend some time at home before going to meet them.

5:15 - 5:30 pm
Sometimes I'm home a bit closer, but it usually falls within the range of 5 pm. I change out of my work clothes right away, have a glass of water, and check my facebook to see if Jon is still awake (sometimes he waits up to talk to me after work, but it's like 2 am Victoria time by the time I'm home). I then figure out what I will make for dinner, maybe watch a cooking video or two, put on my favourite show of the moment, clean dishes or just make dinner. If I'm going out again to do something I will change, sometimes have a quick snack, check to see if my friend(s) still want to meet up and then leave to meet them

6-7 pm
The time varies a lot more than that, but roughly I will make dinner plans around 6-6:30. Often I find myself eating at City 7. It is a mall near my house. I realize it sounds weird to go to the mall for dinner, but unlike western style malls the food is much better and not just fast food. In Korea, there are restaurants everywhere, so there are quite a few good restaurants throughout the mall. The number of restaurants in the mall surprised me the first time I went there. If I am meeting someone else for dinner. I will go downtown to meet them and if it is a Korean friend I let them decide what we should eat, if it is a foreigner we pick something together.

7 pm on wards
Pretty much do what I'm doing right now. Write, watch tv, clean, work on lesson materials, facebook, exercise normal evening activities, then go to bed and get ready for the next day.
If I was out after dinner I we will wander around and look at stuff, if I'm with a group of friends we might go to a bar or if I'm downtown. Mostly I just walk or bus home then spend time watch tv, surfing the internet and getting ready for bed.

So that is a typical weekday for me. I will write another post about the weekend soon. On another note, I can't believe I'm already been here for almost a month! It does not feel like that long at all. Time has flown by, still I miss everyone at home and my moms yummy home cooking.



My corner of the world: Made to Clean
My corner of the world: Made to Clean: A few weeks ago I decided what with my very busy lifestyle that I needed some housecleaning help.Luckily I spotted this little flyer at my...

We do organising and cleaning 



















We give expert organizing ideas along with offering it as a service






Aintree bumper
Mam Ratagan is one of 22 runners declared for tomorrow's final race at Aintree.As I said in an earlier post, Nicky Henderson marked this horse out as one readers [of The Weekender] should keep an eye on.Let's make no mistake, this is a very competitive race.The Sporting Life tissue prices up Mam Ratagan @ 12/1. I'm tempted to have an each way wager on this one.

Aintree & Mam Ratagan
About this time of year I get asked what I fancy in the National. I rarely answer correctly. Of course, this meeting is now so much more than just the Grand National.A couple of months back Nicky Henderson's stable was featured in The Weekender. Mam Ratagan was the name of a horse readers were advised to look out for. The horse has a five day entry in the bumper to be run on Saturday @ 5.30pm. I'd be interested in this one if he makes the final line-up.

Bank Holiday racing at Warwick
Racing on Bank Holidays isn't always of the highest quality but you can usually guarantee a larger than normal crowd.Warwick is my local track http://www.warwickracecourse.co.ukI'm not in love with the place. The viewing leaves a bit to be desired - there's a hill in the middle of the course - and it's a right treck from the betting ring to the paddock.Here's a tale from Warwick races this Easter Monday.A couple known to a colleague of mine go racing occasionally. At Warwick on Monday the lady decides to place a two pound each way bet with a bookmaker on a 16/1 outsider. The horse duly finishes third. When she goes to collect, the bookie chappie dismisses her with a wave of the hand telling her there was nothing to collect on her ticket.The lady concerned confirms the official result and then sends her husband back to collect. As the bookie pays out, the husband enquires why his wife was refused payment. The reply: 'Oh, sorry mate, I was in the toilet when the result was announced.'Call me a cynic but that looks like a blatant attempt to welch on a bet; that always leaves a bad taste in the mouth.

FA Cup semi final bet
It's the Scottish Grand National at Ayr tomorrow; a difficult race.The best bet I've seen today is West Ham 15/8 with Totalbet http://www.totalbet.com to beat Middlesborough in 90 minutes on Sunday.I'm not big on football but Middlesborough have played four games in the last eight days and have just travelled back from Bucharest having lost 1-0 to Steaua.The manager, interviewed on radio, admitted the players were tired.West Ham look the value.

Fresh Ayr
Over Easter I was up in Scotland. In that country it is now illegal to smoke in a public place. Unsurprisingly off course bookmaking outlets constitue a public place. As I ambled past Ladbrokes in Dumfries, I noticed a small mountain of stubbed-out cigarettes outside the door; intrigued, I went in. No more fug, the air was pure and clean and I could see all the screens quite clearly. Disconsolate I trudged out - where has it all gone wrong?I have long used the quality of the air inside bookmaking establishments as a reason not to enter, thereby saving myself hundreds of pounds in losing bets over the years.These developments have all the traits of yet more bookmaking trickery - by improving the environment of the shops, the punters will want to come in, will stay longer than before and will lose even more money.Let's hope it's not introduced south of the border.

Alleged N15m Scam: 'She Is After Me Because I Denied Her S*x**She Stole My Sister's Phone'-Jim Iyke




Yesterday, the ongoing war between Abuja businesswoman, Habiba Abubakar and Nollywood actor, Jim Iyke took a new turn. Habiba released on documents and a supposed 'criminal' pictures of Jim Iyke at the police station.




The story, which went viral after Gossipnigeria.com published it, was reacted to by Jim Iyke, who tweeted at us on social media, Twitter claiming the story was false.



Some of his tweets at Gossipnigeria.com read, "another unsubstantiated story. Your wanton exhibition of mediocrity is hilarious! I'm on location in Asaba (Delta State). You try too hard!



"Let me state what I suspect you already know; your comments can't MAKE or MAR anyone's career. Your prejudice and bias [comments] keep us lighted."



Soon after, he promised to give more 'shout outs' as he did before Habiba released these documents to the media.



According to some of Jim Iyke's 'shout outs' few hours ago, "ok folks, the idea of the shout out is to read between the lines and compare notes with the bogus claims. You know the subject matter and the topics. So, follow closely!



"Please be advised that the subject matter will be referred to as the 'lady from hell'.



"Shout out to OBSESSION. That can drive a middle-aged mother to relentlessly pursue a youngman's end because he refused your sexual advances. Peo aint dumb!



"Shout out to MOTHERS for their love and sacrifice. Any woman that can fabricate pictures and stories to hurt a mother invites an irrevocable curse. God judges!



"Shout out to the lady from hell for stealing pictures from my sister's phone to photo-shop to insult my great mom. Won't insult yours because my mom raised me better."



He further tweeted more 'shout out' and also promised to do more till tomorrow.



In 2011, Jim Iyke was slapped with an alleged 15million Naira fraud case in court. In June 2012, he claimed that the case was thrown out of court for lack of evidence.



Habiba has debunked Jim Iyke's claim that the case was thrown out of court for lack of evidence. She reportedly said that she withdrew the case from court because Jim Iyke's mother begged her.


And the excuses for mass murderer, James Holmes, have started




The American legal system is already making excuses for the Colorado theater mass murderer, James Holmes, the 24 year old who went into a movie theater packed with movie-goers and shot 71 people, killing 12. According to lawyers and FBI profilers who analyzed his case this afternoon (Holmes is due to make his first court appearance in a few minutes), the killer can not separate reality from illusion...and that is most probably going to be his defense.If he were a Muslim, he would have been labelled a terrorist. If he were a black man, he would have been labelled a thug, but because he's white, he's dellusional? This crazy man separated reality enough to buy 6000 rounds of ammunition, 1 assault rifle, 1 semi automatic shot gun, 2 glock pistols and a Bane full body armour, so he could go shoot up innocent people, including a six year old girl. He separated reality enough to rig up his home with bombs. Then all of a sudden when it comes to his trial, he can't separate reality from illusion?Go tell that shit to the marines! Meanwhile, read online that his prison inmates are trying to kill him...but fortunately for him he's locked in solitary confinement.


Armed robbers raid bullion van, cart away N58m, kill policeman




Armed robbers, on Tuesday July 17th, raided a bullion van belonging to a first generation bank along the Lagos-Badagry Expressway.According to reports, the robbers laid ambush for the bullion van which was coming to Lagos via the Badagry expressway and succeeded in taking all the money in the vehicle (58 million naira). They also killed an escort police officer in the processThe Lagos Commissioner of Police confirmed the robbery attack and said the bank did not use the customized bullet-proof bullion van that banks are advised to use in order to reduce the incidence of robbery attacks on bank vehicles.

Rimu

Maori name: Rimu

Common name: Red pine

Botanical name: Dacrydium cupressinum



Rimu grows throughout New Zealand. 



The hard and scaled outer layer of the bark was scratched off, and then applied to ulcers, bruises or burns. 



The red gum was applied open wounds to stop bleeding and prevent infection.



The red gum from the rimu trunk was used for any bleeding of the lungs, stomach or intestinal tract and also to treat stomach aches. 


Angel Espionage


CKB - "Hannah Rose and the Light" '95


Prada Wallpaper - 2009






http://www.prada.com/en/live-parade/post




MadisonAvenueWindow

Angel @ the Frick - Jan'10
I took this picture really quickly. 

I just wanted to capture the angel statue in the central garden room of the Frick museum. 
It wasn't until I got home and downloaded this picture that I saw that the pendant light had flared in a pretty symetrical shape resembling wings. And then, the woman to the right in the red jacket with her head in her hand. 
It was much more of an intense moment than I had known when I took the shot.

ART WORK BY A B D U L R A H M 1 1 2


# O M A R Y # LEGIT # WORK # BY @ A B D U L R A H M 1 1 2




LEGIT WORK # GRAPHICS # DRAWING # KENDRICK # LAMAR # $$$

James & Amanda
We were so happy to be able to capture James and Amanda's big day for them! The fall colours were out in full force, and the weather was beautiful. These two are truly lucky to have such a great little boy and a gorgeous baby girl! I couldn't believe how smiley that baby was. Thank you James and Amanda, we wish you and your family all the best in the years to come.




















The Cell Membrane (also called the Plasma Membrane)


Cell Organelle Project
Cell Organelles Story Board(function() { var scribd = document.createElement("script"); scribd.type = "text/javascript"; scribd.async = true; scribd.src = "http://www.scribd.com/javascripts/embed_code/inject.js"; var s = document.getElementsByTagName("script")[0]; s.parentNode.insertBefore(scribd, s); })();

Inner Life of a Cell Video on Studio Daily (Biovisions Harvard)


Intravenous virus eyed as possible cancer treatment - Health - CBC News
Intravenous virus eyed as possible cancer treatment - Health - CBC News

The Art of the Double Take
I've often heard it said [and usually by magazine publishers] that they won't use illustration because '... we can get photographs far cheaper on the web'. I take that to mean they'll use anything that's cheap and instantaneous. It doesn't appear to me to be an ethos that will improve standards. First, they probably won't get what they're looking for, and insert an image that is 'along the lines of what we want, but it'll do...'. Secondly, photography and illustration are mutually distinct and serve different purposes. Photography is a reflection of one instant in time. It shows what is, or the actuality of the subject [like a portrait]. Illustration -we could call it artwork- encompasses the subject but expresses it in a unique way, takes the viewer into a different world -the world of the bizarre, perhaps, where anything can happen. Good editorial illustration should draw viewers in and make them return for further viewings.I presume the same editors wouldn't use copy that nearly says what they want it to say...or would they? Magazines full of reworked press releases, anybody?

Today's Irish Times Illustration
This is the image that went into today's Personal Finance section of Business This Week. The article it accompanies is about the upcoming SSIA accounts coming to fruition and the enormous amounts of bureaucracy associated with realising them. In fact it wasn't the idea that I first proposed to the editor -which was simply a wrapped gift, completely bound up in red tape and a dismayed person looking at it. That would have done, I suppose -but it wouldn't have been one that inspired a double-take! I preferred to do this "Boys' Own' version, complete with skull and poised cobra. Far more manly. Harumph.

All Blacks versus Royalty Free Stock
Just a little observation about blandness. It struck me the other day that communications sent out from businesses should be like a haka. If ever there was a statement of intent, conviction, values and unity, it's in the haka. It's unequivocal and leaves no doubt about the serious drubbing you're going to get, once all the gods and ancients tool up and join the rest of the team in the field. 'You're not only playing us, you pathetic fools' it seems to say, 'you've got several volcano gods and all the tribal spirits to deal with'.Well, when you see the drab uninspired stock photography that populates corporate literature all around, think of the haka. Only illustration that you commission, that you collaborate on will tell your company's story and call down your gods. Ko Kapa o Pango e ngunguru nei! The alternative? Taking the field with a reworked Westlife song [in other words a picture of two businessmen shaking hands -or any of thousands of other boring, mediocre pictures that may well already have been used by your competitors]. Your team will exit the field with its collective ass in a sling. Don't do it. If you feel the urge to reach for a stock image, call me and, as your team coach,  I'll roar at you in the changing room. Au, au, aue ha!This haka was first performed by the All Blacks versus South Africa on 27 August 2005 at Carisbrook, Dunedin. The All Blacks won 31 - 27. This haka was written by Ngati Porou's Derek Lardelli. This haka will only be performed before special test matches. Sourced from http://www.nzallblacks.net/haka.aspKapo o pango haka:Kapa o pango kia whakawhenua au i ahau!Let me become one with the landHi aue, hi! Ko Aotearoa e ngunguru nei!This is our land that rumblesAu, au, aue ha!And it's my time! It's my moment!Ko Kapa o Pango e ngunguru nei!This defines us as the All BlacksAu, au, aue ha!It's my time! It's my moment!I ahaha! Ka tu te ihiihiOur dominanceKa tu te wanawanaOur supremacy will triumphKi runga ki te rangi e tu iho nei, tu iho nei, hi!And will be placed on highPonga ra!Silver fern!Kapa o Pango, aue hi!All Blacks!Ponga ra!Silver fern!Kapa o Pango, aue hi, ha!All Blacks!

Illustration appears on the Radio!
Last Friday saw me arrive into the Anna Livia studios for an interview with Alex Gibson on his show, 'The Persuaders' -a weekly marketing and media programme. The Persuaders. It was a good chance to get an inside view of the wireless -all those wires! The interview covered my beginnings as an illustrator and my part in the birth of the Illustrators Guild of Ireland. I had my portfolio with me and Alex described a selection to the audience. Hang on -I *was* asked... A case of a thousand words painting one picture. There's an audio file available on my site [just under 7Mb]. Just to keep with the subject matter, I'm not going to include a picture.

My ol' Mum Loves This
The Art Editor from the Wall Street Journal rang me last week and laughingly told me that he had an article ready to serve up to me. In his own words, he "...couldn't make head nor tail of it".  I don't blame him; it was one of the driest morsels of indigestible text I've ever eaten. Only recommended eating for the most ravenous, the only way of saucing it up was with an illustration, pictured here. Writer; can I please have the bill now...?

Christmas Service
Our annual Christmas Service, suitable for all our pupils Junior Infants to Sixth, will take place in St Thomas' Church, Peterswell on Saturday December 23rd at 6pm Please make every effort to attend this service. Your attendance will be greatly appreciated by the participants.

School Features on RTE!
Our school featured on RTE Den TV News in November 2006. The television crew came to St. Thomas to document our science project entitled 'The Pulse of Life'.According to those that saw it, it was very good! Thanks to all involved.A few days later, 25 pupils and teachers led by Geraldine Nolan and Brid O'Donnell put on a mighty display at the annual Science & Technology Festival in Salthill.Without a doubt it was one of the main attractions on the day with our young scientists demonstrating micro surgery with 'Keyhole Ken', explaining a computer presentation of the workings of the heart and displaying a wide range of medical games designed for children.Our stand also featured the famous life-size model of 'Brendanstein' which portrayed the inner workings of the heart and other associated organs with the circulatory system.But the most popular exhibit was our unique 'Puppet Show', which told the interesting story of the wide range of heart rates in the animal kingdom. It was launched by the Mayor of Galway City, Councillor Niall O'Brolchain.Thanks to all our supporters, Tommy 'The Puppeteer' Baker from Your Man's Puppets and of course to the 40 children who were involved in the project.

Christmas Sweet Factory
Every year Ms Nolan's Class produce home made sweets as Christmas presents. This year the task was easier than usual as the pupil's had access to a kitchen as part of our new extension. A fun-filled and scrumptious day was enjoyed by all.

Eddie Lenihan Shares his Stories
Eddie Lenihan visited our school earlier this year. He spent time with all the classes - Junior, Middle and Senior. We were all fascinated and had endless questions to ask about his stories and about fairies and folklore in general. Thank you Eddie for a great day!

Realizations at 25
They
 say life is a long journey where you meet a lot of people along the 
way. When I say a lot, it's really a lot. But when that happens, do you 
really get to know those "a lot" really well? Only few of those people 
get a chance to be part of your long journey. So, treasure them.But
 can someone get tired of those lot? I hope not. We  just extend our 
networks and still keep the old ones. It's the time where you want to 
explore more, get out of your circle and gain more friendship. That's 
what I would surely do. Extend my presence in the lives of others. 
That's why I chose my field in the first place, right? I think I
 have lost focused in that previous goal lately, I became stranded to 
just being alone, where I still enjoy though, seems funny huh? But time 
is passing too fast, and come this year, I just woke up that I am 25 
already. And now I am rushing things to cope up with reality; I enrolled
 to school to gain a master's degree and keep my workplace. I want to 
know new people again, gather inspiration and beat life's experiences. I
 might been held in the cage for quite a few years now and swam in that 
little space wherein there is a bigger world outside.So, hello again WORLD! I will conquer you again with lots of pictures to shoot and stories to tell.


Wednesday, August 29, 2012 


Martin Fennelly Antiques Dublin
Well - Thanks for dropping by - You have stumbled om my Blog which is all about the area of Dublin where my Antique Store is located. I am one of many Antique Stores on Francis Street in Dublin 8.http://www.fennelly.net/ is my Web AddressIts the 31st March and I am in the Store and its a beautiful day here in Dublin.Regards 

Francis Street Location
Francis Street is close to the City centre of Dublin and easily reached by Cab or walking. its only a short stroll from most Hotels. The Street also has many Art Galleries and one can spend hours searching the Stores and Galleries.

The Antique Timeline
Click the Clock toview the Antique Timeline periodinformation

Bespoke Furniture in Antique Mahogany
 OK .... I Know !! There are No Antique TV Cabinets.However My Master Craftsmen can Custom makea piece in Antique Mahogany of any Dimension and style for The Flat ScreenTV which will also hide the ugly DVD's etcCLICK PICTURE TO VIEW 

Calling all Members of A.S.I.D.
Martin Fennelly Antiques which currently enjoys many business relatioships with Major American Interior Designers are Delighted to announce a 20% discount on Ticket prices for the months of April/May 2009 in Store or Web Orders.

Free Social Network SMS



sdfsd

Aahista Aahista Episode 10 on Hum Tv in High Quality 3 Aug 2014
DRAMASTODAYS  full  

Aahista Aahista Episode 11 on Hum Tv in High Quality 10 Agu2014
 DRAMASTODAYS     Dailymotion full  

Adhura Milan Episode 22 on Aplus in High Quality 9 Aug 2014
 DRAMASTODAYS   Full part 

Ager Tum Na Hotay Episode 7 on Hum Tv in High Quality 13Agu2014
 DRAMASTODAYS    Dailymotion full  

Alvida Episode 96 on ARY Zindagi in High Quality 9 agu 2014
 DRAMASTODAYS     Full Part  


Amazing Sand Artcontinue reading....Potential gold Mines of India....Continue readingWorld's Hairiest ManContinue reading...


Daboo Ratnani's Calendar 2010 click here for more ...Maria Sharpova latest photo shot click here for more... 


Motivational Quotescontinue reading....Amazing Human braincontinue reading...Targets in 2010continue reading...


Data Sheet of a Womanclick here for more...Quit Smokingclick here for more...

Sun, 28th July: Solution Tipster's Tips

Hi everyone, it's another bet day and SolutionTipster is here. Again, there are so many matches out there today but, here are the ones that i fancy for our normal treble.

Selection A: Corinthians - Sao Paulo, 8pm GMT+1, Home(draw no bet), @1.35
Though Corinthians had not been particularly great at home this season but Sao Paulo on the other side had been totally awful this term.Since June 2, they have played 10matches and is yet to get a win, lost last seven in a row of which two of the meetings were against their today's host which they lost the two legs. I would have gone for straight win for Corinthians but considering the fact that they do not score many goals at the moment, that's why i'm going for draw no bet.

Selection B: Narpes Kraft - Harma (Finland), 4.30pm GMT+1, Narpes(-1)@1.40
Narpes had played 7games at home and won last 6of them, they score at least 2goals per home match, won the reverse of this fixture 2 -1. Harma on the other side is very awful at the moment, last 6matches without scoring a single goal and coceded 19, you can see why i'm handicapping Narpes here.

Selection C:
Alta - Valdres (Norway div2, grp2),1pm GMT+1, Alta(-1)@1.45
When i look at this match, i only think of how many goals Alta is going to score against there opponent today. Alta, first in the league, 13matches without a draw let alone lose, 31goals in 7home games conceding only 4, won the reverse fixture 4 -1. You can see why i made my choice, their opponent simply cannot withstand them.

Treble Odd@2.75

Want More?
Selection D: Fredriksad - Follo (Norway), 5pm GMT+1, Over2.5goals@1.50
Fredriksad's seven home games had all ended as over2.5, twelve of total fiften matches had ended as over2.5. Follo's six of seven away matches had all been over2.5, ten of total fifteen matches had been over2.5. You can see my reason is clear

Enjoy yourself

Solution Tipster

NB: your comment is important to me, it makes me feel you're here with me 



Buildings & Structures


























































Nature

















































































































































































Other









































































People


















































































 














































































The accidental cyclist
Lately I have given considerable thought to taking up cycling.Now don't get me wrong, it's not that I have gone environmentally friendly or concerned about where I leave my carbon footprint, (my non-carbon footprints can normally be found on the butts of those who get up my nose).Nor can it be said that the fluctuating price of oil that prompts service stations to raise the price 50 cents a litre when it rises slightly, and lower it 1.5 cents when it drops dramatically, has any influence on my chain of thought - basically because as I have mentioned several times on i On Global Trends, I don't drive and never have.Oh yes - I did have driving lessons when I was seventeen but I never got on with my driving instructor and cancelled my test the day before I was supposed to take it - and no doubt fail. Why anyone would go to the bother of pressing and releasing clutches and changing gears continuously, was a concept beyond my grasp. Apart from each new Jaguar that is launched, cars are of no interest to me.Incidentally, the other day I was drooling over a new Jaguar parked near my local shops. Shiny, sleek, beautiful curves. As I looked it over, a very attractive, smartly dressed blonde woman approached the car, got in and drove off. Nice car I thought, but the optional extras come with too many complications!My reasoning is far simpler than all the above. It's because I reckon I would look damn good in lycra.I can see it now, bum up in the air, my crown jewels jiggling like a ferret in a sack, looking the spitting image of a Tour De France rider - apart from the training wheels and bag of groceries precariously perched on the back.There is another advantage to being a cyclist in Sydney. The moment you don lycra and a helmet shaped like some sort of bed pan designed by art students, you are granted the right to do what you like - and to hell with anyone else!If you want to ride on the pavement at 50kph yelling at pedestrians to get out of the way - you go ahead mate. Fancy riding three abreast along a two lane highway ignoring the honking of the cars and buses lined  up behind you? - that's your right according to the Environmentally Friendly Peddle Pushers Association of Inconsiderate Bastards.Even better - I could join fellow cyclists in their favorite trick of blocking the Sydney Harbour Bridge at peak hour on a Friday afternoon, protesting the right to use the footpaths, nature strips, roads, bus lanes, transport lanes - everything in fact except the cycle paths provided at tax payers expense.Yes, I can ride a bike. I even used to ride to work, often dressed in a brown, trendy over-coat, a Kojak hat, and a cigarette dangling from one hand. Man, did I look cool, (though those who saw me and shouted "Whatya think ya look like ya great big pillock" may disagree - there are Fashion Philistines in every city !).Admittedly the last time I jumped on a saddle was in Cardiff when I was in my twenties, (I jumped on a lot of bikes in Cardiff in my twenties!) and ended in shall we say - unfortunate circumstances.Despite the fact I am totally useless at fitting things, and certainly come nowhere near the natural skill some people have for fitting things up, I decided I would, without assistance, fit a speedometer to my bike.All seemed to go well. The fancy new speedometer, gleamed on the shiny handlebars. I took off down a hill that led straight to a main road. As I neared the busy cross street, I decided it was time to apply the breaks and slow down. That's when the problems started. The bike wouldn't slow down. In fact, as I was on the steepest part of the hill, it was rapidly gaining speed.Oh Gosh! I exclaimed, followed by "Listen God - I've got a proposition for you." God it seemed, was away on business. It was time to make a decision. I deliberately crashed the bike in order to stop. Luckily I was unhurt and just as fortunately, the rapid descent of the now detached front wheel, was stopped by a large tree.Actually, the crashing was the easy part. The hard part was walking back up the hill, grazed, disheveled and carrying the front wheel in one hand and what was left of the bike in the other.I think I'd better think this out again!Wherever you may be - be safeCopyright Mike Hitchen Online, Lane Cove, NSW, Australia. All rights reserved

And so this is...Happy Holiday
I wasn't going to blog today but I changed my mind - I'm like that. At my age being mentally flexible is a lot easier than being physically flexible. In any case, I'm now in a position in my life  where what I want over-rides everything and everyone else. I'm like that too.Today I went to the nearby suburb of Chatswood for a meeting. Chatswood has changed a lot over the years but two things that have resisted the tide of change, are the meanness of the local council and their Christmas decorations.Sorry, I tell a lie. For about 15 years they hung red thingamabobs across the street. People called them thingamabobs because no one was ever quite sure what they were meant to be. There was a wild rumor that part of the thingamabobs were in fact bells. However, that was never confirmed and those who subscribed to that theory were widely ridiculed and silenced by high powered attorneys.But as you can see, this year the decorations adorning the main shopping strip have changed. This street is about 400-500 meters long. It is the main shopping strip in a thriving commercial and residential suburb. But as far as Christmas decorations go - what you see is what you get - that's it for the whole darn street.If you are wondering what the banners say, so am I - but it is basically "Happy Holiday".Now I may offend some readers with what I am about to say - I'm like that - but hey that's life baby.The vast majority of us here endorse and support other cultures religious, national, social festivities, holidays and events. We call Ramadan - Ramadan. Thanksgiving - Thanksgiving. Bastille Day - Bastille Day (For one day we are all French, then go back to knocking them again). We happily embrace multi-culturalism - apart from a few members of the flannelette shirt brigade spurred on by talk back radio hosts who earn their living sprouting populist drivel.So why does Christmas have to be "Happy Holiday"?The ironic thing is, that those belonging to the demographic group the Pillocks - I mean Pillars of Society are trying to protect from offence - do not want to be protected. They are quite happy with Christmas - and as you walk along the street you can see shops owned by a veritable United Nations of Chatswood business people selling guess what - Christmas goodies!Happy Holiday my Aspidistra.What will will Willoughby Council do for a Christmas - sorry, Happy Holiday Pageant? Have a Dick Van Dyke sound alike prancing around the manger with Joseph's wife singing, "Oh, it's a jolly holiday With Mary.."It's hard enough as it is to get into the Christmas spirit with bright sunshine, 35 C heat and light nights, without having a few tatty banners strung across the street like an advertising campaign for the local ladies bingo night, wishing all those shoppers spending their hard earned money, a happy holiday.Next year perhaps they could have a tree! Now that would be a first. And not a Holiday Tree either. A bloody huge, whopping - Christmas Tree.Wherever you may be - be safeCopyright Mike Hitchen Online, Lane Cove, NSW, Australia. All rights reserved

When?
I originally wrote and published this a couple of  months after the tragedy of 9/11. I have made slight amendments to the original  to accommodate the passage of time. It is not great and in terms of composition,  it comes nowhere close to being technically correct. However, it is how I felt then - and how I feel  now. I am not one to let my feelings take second place to rules or  convention.When?You ask who I am,So I will tell you.I am man.I am woman.I am your brotherI am your sisterI am what I and others have created.You ask when did I become what I am?You ask, but I can not answer.When did I stop looking at the world with eyes that saw no evilAnd start seeing with eyes that see no good?When did laughter turn to tearsAnd wonder turn to suspicion?When did I stop questioning in search of knowledgeAnd start questioning in search of lies?When did make believe stop being harmlessAnd turn to fatal lies?When did I stop playing with othersAnd playing with others lives?When did children stop holding my handAnd start holding my guns instead?When did I stop being happy with what I hadAnd greedy for things others possessed?When did I stop joyful chatteringAnd start making speeches of hate?When did I stop listening for words of wisdomAnd start talking words designed to incite?When did I stop thinking the world was full of wonderAnd start thinking it was mine to take?When did I stop making finger puppetsAnd start pulling the strings of others?I see you crying my childEyes that once were filled with joy and innocenceAre now filled with tears.You weep and ask not "When?"You weep and ask"Why?"Copyright Mike Hitchen Online, Lane Cove, NSW, Australia. All rights reserved

Jesus and the Aussie workman
A Russian walks into a bar with a bad neck. He tells the bartender, "Give me a vodka" The Russian looks down the end of the bar and sees Jesus sitting on his own. He tells the barman, "and a vodka for Jesus".A few minutes later a German walks into the bar limping. "Give me Schnapps" he tells the barman. He takes his drink, looks around and sees Jesus. "And a Schnapps for Jesus too".Before long, an Aussie walks into the bar in shorts and singlet, clutching his back. "Give me a VB mate" he tells the barman. Lo and behold he sees Jesus and tells the barman, "And a beer for Jesus too mate"Jesus finishes his drinks, walks over to the Russian and puts his hand on the mans neck. Instantly the Russian is cured.He then puts his hand on the German's bad leg - instantly he is able to walk again.Jesus then approaches the Aussie who recoils with horror.'Don't touch me mate..don't...I'm on workers comp"Copyright Mike Hitchen Online, Lane Cove, NSW, Australia. All rights reserved

See, I'm just a big softy
Ok, so I also posted this on Sydney Irresistible, but this time I played around  a little with the contrast.If you have imagination, and I know many do have big  imaginations, one could be mistaken for thinking it was taken 100 meters below  the sea by one of those teams of explorers, who go around shining bloody lights  at creatures who have lived in blissful darkness all their lives - a bit like  tabloid newspaper readers but wetter.I expect seeing the light is just as much  of a shock to their system too!Till Saturday, wherever you may be - be safe (ah, I have my old  catch-phrase back again!)Copyright Mike Hitchen Online, Lane Cove, NSW, Australia. All rights reserved

Redesigning Houses




A simple terrace house conversion. From the outside, the same as every other house.








Inside it is rather different.




More light and more space.




And more open too.




With a garden to luxuriate in.

<big>~</big><i><small>P</small>reliminary <small>A</small>nnouncement</i><big>~</big>
At least twenty-three of you are wondering, what shape is this thing going to take, and when?  I've been propelled here to give you some answers.  The fleet have assimilated most of the info they need for a correlative attempt at publishing this daily.  They have apparantly tolled masses of demographics from dozens of foreign and familiar countries and together we have determined the optimal format of the  FoFaSF's maidenhead founding.   Generally, the Freezine will feature two stories per week.  The beginning of one serialized novel or novella, and one stand alone short story.  The serialized novel will be published as an X-amount of pages a day, appearing Mondays through Thursdays, usually four installments per week.  These pages would constitute one chapter or section, more or less. Serialized novels will run for as many days as they require.  On Fridays, a stand alone short story will typically be published, anywhere from a few pages to, hopefully, not more than the average Subscriber can handle.  By offering one entire story every Friday, Subscribers may look forward to reading it at their leisure, over the weekend.  There will be no updates from the Freezine on weekends, normally.  Mondays will feature the next few pages of the ongoing novel, continuing on Tuesdays, Wednesdays, and pausing on Thursdays (to be continued the following Monday).  And so forth.  It will be a streamlined space vessel appositioned for maximum didactic effect. We have received some stunning submissions sure to leave each and every one of you reeling in your seats and drooling for more, each and every day the Freezine updates.  With an average of twenty updates per issue, our intent is to deliver three or four new short stories, possibly an interview, and one serialized novella of slipstreamed reading pleasure. That's four or five stories every other month from as many different authors.  The editors are striving to keep the quality high and the aspirations low, so get ready for the ride of your lives because when this thing takes off, it will leave you speechless with pride to know you've embarked on one of the wildest rides of your life.

<small><strong><b>Welcome to the <u>Freezine of Fantasy and Science Fiction</u></b></strong></small>
Accepting submissions now.Please submit your short stories, novellas, and other original grotesqueries, including novels to be serialized, to freezinefantasysciencefiction@gmail.com It's about the free and willing exchange of ideas. This is just now getting off the ground, and will proceed at a pace determined by the editors. Rest assured, they are a fleet of supremely adaptable nanobots flowing through my bloodstream. These editors are nothing, if not efficient. They are working on the terms & conditions memo right now. Oh look there it is, flashing in my inbox already.   Here's the deal. The Freezine of Fantasy and Science Fiction (or FoFaSF, for short) will be exactly what it claims to be: free. Free for me to host, free to post. Also I'm free to boast, what I don't like the most, will be toast. Writers who submit their stories will get nothing. They will reap the immeasurable benefits of lending their story out. The choice remains theirs to keep it up for a limited time, or indefinitely, whatever floats their boats. The service I am providing freely here is exposure, maybe something more, perhaps something less. You agree to be karmically propelled further up or down the ladder, whichever the case may be. By associating with the Freezine of Fantasy and Science Fiction, you inherit all risks and responsibilities of the consequences. Just think of it:  total freedom. Authors published herein reserve the right to contact the editors and request their story or poem or entry be taken down, at any time. The nanofleet is keyed to my sentimentality, so they should be quite cooperative. They've been nothing but gracious to me, their host. I do only as they bid, and so far don't regret a thing. Hold on I'm getting a memo from them. *...---------...* They are telling me that the chances for future harmonious interface with their decisions are virtually guaranteed. I'm not sure what that means exactly - depends on what they mean by virtually, I guess. So there you have it. I'll be pimpin' this thing on myspace, (don't know about facebook: my nanofleet have reported to me they are systemically at odds with the facebook protocol interface), through gmail, twitter, and whatever other means at my disposal I should come across. I'm thinking of disseminating this freezine from random modalities at odds with the establishment, for starters. Then I'll swiftly move on to facebook (after we perfect our loaded firewall zones) and reap the harvest from there. Hope to see you all there -- in the virtual world of cyberspace. ~Your host possessed of nanobots, Shaun thorngrub aka thornswrath Lawton

Launching Monday, July 6, 2009
photograph by Shasta Fletcherthe Freezine of Fantasy and Science Fiction"a freezine devoted to the resurgence of a post-New Wave Science Fiction & Fantasy ethic"The editors of the Freezine -- the bloodhost, I sometimes call them -- seem to be  battling harder within me every day to excise my interference altogether so they can address you directly.  I won't let them.  I'll have you know it's a matter of willpower alone that is allowing me to maintain a strong presence here.  Don't get me wrong.  I don't perceive them as the enemy or anything.  For all I know they are here to help us all.  I just see them as a refined tool whose delicate intricacies may outweigh my capability of mastering them.  Such a tool can only become dangerous in unskilled  hands. Forget about double edged instruments -- with the microhorde, three edges is just the beginning.  But I digress. This missive has been generated with a post automatic suggestion implanted in the mind of your host--yours truly--to bring you up to date with our Freezine's progress.  To the Zine's current Followers:  You are the Inner Sanctum.   We may now extract a randomized variable with just enough coherency, from the configuration of forty-four neurolinks, to proceed. Digital Man--welcome to the Fold.  You are the forty-fourth member of the Inner Sanctum.    What's cooking on the platter for the Freezine's Debut is the launching of the  serialized novella SKY PIRATES from none other than award-winning novelist John Shirley.  It is a good old-fashioned, blast-em space opera set on an alien world, and appears here for the first time.  Although it serves well as a stand-alone story, it is roughly the first half of a novel still in progress.  SKY PIRATES should fit snugly into July's serial slot, ending on Thursday, July 30.  John's newest books are BLACK GLASS: The Lost Cyberpunk Novel out from Elder Signs Press, and in August Simon and Schuster is bringing out his urban fantasy novel, BLEAK HISTORY. Be sure to visit his authorized website at http://darkecho.com/johnshirley.Also ready to be served up each and every Friday, are enticing pieces of fiction from Johnny Strike, David Agranoff, Keith Graham, and many more as yet top-secret undercover fantasists.  Johnny Strike is a founding member of the protopunk band CRIME (vocals/guitar) as well as author of the 2007 short story collection A Loud Humming Sound Came From Above (published by Rudos and Rubes), and the 2004 novel Ports Of Hell (published by Diagonal).  David Agranoff is the author of a short story collection Screams from a Dying World just released by Afterbirth Books. Afterbirth will also be releasing his first novel Hunting the Moon Tribe.  Keith Graham is a Computer Programmer, Blues Harp player and Speculative Fiction writer. He currently maintains 45 active websites.  He has published more than 50 stories over the last six years in venues such as Martian Wave, AtomJack, Electric Spec, Aoffe's Kiss, Tales of the Talisman, Fifth Di..., The Harrow, and many others.  Visit his website: http://www.cthreepo.com.I can now reveal that the Freezine of Fantasy and Science Fiction will declare its independence by debuting Monday, July 6, 2009, with the John Shirley novella SKY PIRATES presented in daily installments, from Mondays to Thursdays.  Each Friday we will present a different short story by another author for our dear Followers to print up and read over the weekend.  Week 2 should present the continuation of SKY PIRATES, with another juicy story offered up that coming Friday.  This daily eperiodical will meet the qualification (in the eyes of the post -blog -twit -generation) of being updated irregularly (five times a week, twenty times a month, two-hundred-and-sixty times a year, more or less).  Just don't expect anything on weekends.  The bloodhost need to recharge their power supply. -- breaking urgent memo from the fleet -- we are to include an interview with a writer at least one Friday a month. --/end memo -- New breaking memo -- the nano-armada informs me they have arrived at the final stage of their calculations.  They encourage writers to "submit their fantasy and science fiction short stories and novellas with all the terrific elements of horrifying tales rooted in these traditions". --/end memo email your submissions to:freezinefantasysciencefiction@gmail.comThese imaginative tales and interviews are quite eagerly anticipated by the microhorde.  They tell me they want to "copy them and send them on".  I suggest we should not seek to fear the unknown, but to understand it.  I think its best we work with the nanofleet, and provide for them exactly what they want:  the elixir of our dreams.

FREE LIVE STREAMING NOTRE DAME GRAND ALUMNI HOMECOMING 2014
ONLY COMPUTER OR LAPTOP CAN VIEW THE LIVE STREAMING, YOU WILL NEED AT LEAST a download connection of 1mbps to view the LIVE STREAMING without buffering



THE START OF LIVE STREAMING IS ON DECEMBER 27, 2014 3:00 PM(PH TIME)


Tnalak Festival Test Broadcast


March 1st, 2012   - Launch Date


grammatical errors.
long nights of longing...nah! stop cheesy things. it would be better / best to feel what i would want to feel.   and it's HAPPY.     

For the second time... :)
" Life is either great adventure or nothing."Last Feb 6, my Xi Class friends went to Zambales and explore the wonders of Camara, Capones and Anawangin Islands. It was fun, yes, we really had FUN!

Alice in Wonderland
These are tweedledee and tweedledum.Ngayon ko lang sila nakilala. hindi kasi ako nagbabasa or nanunuod ng Alice. Remi pa siguro. haha! :)At aun, they're cute, lalo na kapag nag-aaway sila.Cute ung scene na nakita nila si Alice sitting with the Red Queen, and nagpanggap sila na di nila kilala si Alice. the red queen suggested kasi na patawanin sila ng twins.basta panuorin niyo na lang.naintriga din pala ako sa Jabberwock na character.
















About us
The best and ultimate place to get all your products such as computers and electronics, Shoes
Jewelry, phones etc. Products advertised here are sold in U.S. dollars. Products will be Shipped to you where ever you are. There will be a cost for shipping if you are located outside the United States of America.
But don't worry it is very easy.

Shoes(women)









































Computers and computer bags





















































Digital Cameras and cases
Point-and-Shoot Digital Cameras


cameras and bags
cameras and bags






Please Click links highlighted in blue to view more products and shop. Thank you!

Dresses




dresses

Please click the word highlighted in orange to view more dresses. Thank You!

#007. ????? (TV size)
????? (TV size) / ????

TV??? ????????????? ED

153BPM : 2.20/4.80/6.60 DL

(Chart fixed 02 Feb 15)

#009. Rage of Demon (Album ver.)
Rage of Demon (Album ver.) / NieN

From ?DJ MAX Portable 3?

196BPM : 3.60/5.70/8.20 DL

(Chart edited 02 Feb 15)

#001. ?????? (TV size)
??????(TV size) / ????

TV??? ????????????? OP

164BPM : 3.20/4.90/7.10 DL

Agar wo poch le hum se tmhay kis bat ka ghum hay


Agar wo poch le muj se ......


Ahmad faraz ki akhri ghazal


Akaly...


Barha ke pyass mari us ne hath chor diya...


Hettie's pix from their visit
http://alittlepeaceinourheaven.blogspot.com/2014/08/final-trip-out-west-pix.html

Happy Mother's Day!


Sunny Flat Campground, Portal, AZ
We camped there overnight a few days ago. Beautiful and peaceful place.

First of all some background info about the place from this AZ Highways link:
http://www.arizonahighways.com/?q=explore/camping/sunny-flat-campground

Now my (our) photos. Mike took a few too.



Just arrived.




Home Sweet Home.




Mike enjoying the campsite.




The view.




I spy a little black animal.




Oh, that's TC!




Happy cat.













Dry riverbed from bridge.
















The Emotion Code.




Shadow selfies.




Lobster about ready to go on the grill. Yummy dinner!




My mug.




Campsite.



And She Was
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YgSVTdAtNYE

10 Great Tips On Cooking Meals!

If you are as busy as most people you are always looking for ways to feed your family in convenient, fast, yet not-too-expensive ways. Try the following suggestions :




1. Cooking several meals for the week at one time. It may take a few hours of your time up front but will pay off in the long run when you come home each evening and have a meal ready to eat in a short amount of time. Try cooking a roast and using part of it as a main meal and then using some for sandwiches, beef stroganoff or as part of a stir-fry. Fry several pounds of hamburger and make a casserole, taco meat and chili to freeze for use later in the week. 2. After you return home from the grocery store clean all the fruits and vegetables you can. When it's time for a meal all you will have to do is cook them or add them to a salad or soup. 3. Get ideas from the cooking shows on T.V. There are great shows that show you how to make a healthy meal in a short time. 4. Develop a revolving recipe file. If you get bogged down by the idea of having to plan 30 meals a month the recipe file is for you. Let family members choose some of their favorites and put the recipes in a monthly file. Flip to day five or fifteen and there is the meal just waiting to be cooked. 5. Enlist the help of the members of your family. As soon as the kids are old enough divide up the cooking responsibilities. Let everyone take turns with specific tasks or the whole meal. Pair these meals with fruit and veggies that have already been washed and cut-up and you are ready for dinner. 6. Share the cooking with friends or neighbors. I've known people who cook four or five of the same meal and then trade with four or five other people. This works best when people share the same basic ideas on what they like and don't like. It's a great idea though for a very easy week of evening meals. 7. Save coupons for those convenience things at the grocery store. They have entire entrees and dinners either fresh or frozen. Sometimes they are rather pricy but with the coupons they are good to have on hand for an evening when everyone is running in different directions and time is of the essence. 8. It's O.K. to eat out from time to time. Clip coupons for these occasions and if you have kids keep a look-out for the places that have special prices for children. Some of the fast-food restaurants are trying to offer item choices that are a little more healthy. 9. Many larger cities have businesses that prepare food for the evening meal. They seem expensive at first but are so convenient and available for one person or entire families. There are many menu choices and meals cooked for special diets. When you calculate the groceries you buy and the times you eat out each week, this may work for you. 10. Combine several of the above ideas into a plan that is best for you. It is possible with a little planning to cook meals that are quick and easy without spending hours in the kitchen every day. 


Bedtime
We have a nightly ritual going on...  Every night Odie steals Baylee's couch bed in our bedroom.  We only have one couch bed and the other bed is just a boring square one (Odie's).  Poor man.  Odie is always the first one to bed, so he obviously chooses the better bed.  Well, Baylee won't go to bed in the square one.  So when she realizes we are going to bed, she comes into the bedroom and her bed is already taken.  She whines with her head on the bed until one of us calls Odie.  So then Odie gets up, receives a little pat on the head, and Baylee gets her bed.  We feel TERRIBLE for tricking baby Odie like that!  Unlike Boo, though, he will sleep on the square bed.  Next time we get to Fleet Farm, I am buying a bedroom couch bed for Odie.  Then we will have a new problem that they will both want the new one!  Man, you should see all of the dog beds scattered throughout our house!

Getting Started
I decided to start a blog... mainly out of boredom.  It will give me something to do when the house is clean, puppies are happy, laundry is done, Brandon is at work, supper is in the oven, etc.  Basically just a journal/hobby.

How to Train Your Dragon
Brandon and I saw How to Train Your Dragon on Sunday night.  I loved it!  It has a great storyline with a lot of action.  And of course I liked it because it had animals in it with a happy ending.  I'm a sucker for anything that makes me think of Baylee, Odie and Eva.

Last of the Boys
Last night I went to Last of the Boys at the Rochester Repertory Theatre. My friend picked me up from work (super nice girl!), and we headed to Whistle Binkies. There was no place to sit, so we went to BB's Pizza instead. We both tried the new Bud Light Wheat and liked it; the pizza was good, too. Time passed quickly, as it always does when I'm with her, and before we knew it, it was time to get to the theatre.  We went to the play because our coworker and friend is in it. I liked it, but I think it would have been easier for me to follow had I good knowledge about Vietnam and the 1960's.  Rochester Rep website 

Male Massage Therapist
I had my first on Saturday.  When I made the appointment, the girl didn't tell me who I was with until the very end of our conversation.  I didn't really know what to do when she said, "Omar."  I very briefly thought about asking for someone else, but then I was worried I would have to wait longer, and I really wanted to use one of the gift certificates Brandon gave me, and so I just thanked her and walked away.  I stressed about it all week and was quite nervous that morning.  I was early for my apppointment, so I had lots of time to think about it, too.  Well, I wasn't quite expecting him to be a buff Latino man with shoulder-length hair wearing a thermal shirt and wind pants.  The weirdest thing is that immediate thougts ran through my head that his pants would make all of this swishy noise and I wouldn't be able to relax and listen to the calming music.  Thankfully, he just wheeled around on the stool.  Not too much swishy noise.  Anyway, he did a really good job and I might even request him next time.  I did at one point, though, think that he was going to pull my head off my body - he pulled me by my head and I slid up a little bit causing me to have to pull the sheet up some.  Oh, and he was really nice and gave me 10 extra minutes!  No, Brandon does not need to be jealous of this dude.  I have an inkling that he may like boys.  IDK.

Launch of New Safe Schools traffic lights in Khayelitsha

On 27 May
2015, Childsafe South Africa and the Department of Transport and Public Works
will be launching new traffic lights in Japhta Masemola Road (old Lansdowne
Road) in Khayelitsha as part of traffic calming improvements to protect
children on route to and from the Sivile Primary School.

The event
forms part of the Safe Schools project to reduce child pedestrian injuries and
deaths on roads near schools due to the large concentration of children exposed
to oncoming vehicles. Learners from a number of primary schools in the area are
expected to receive new reflective school uniforms to increase visibility on
their daily travelling.

With the
launch of the new traffic lights, the partners hope motorists will be more cautious
on the road and look out for children. Road traffic officers from the
Department and City of Cape Town will also show learners how to cross the road
safely, using the new traffic lights.


The partners
appeal to members of the public to keep themselves safe and model good
pedestrian behaviour for children so that they learn good habits.



Hello again.

Here are some pics of the 'morabaraba ring' i blogged about yesterday.












It is incomplete but one can already tell that it's going to be awesome...



Hello again.

Here are some pictures of the Morabaraba ring I blogged about last week. Although It is not the finished product, i just thought i should share them.















This is a video on South African designers and some of their designs.










Mt Lindesey Hwy at Camp Cable Crossing CLOSED due to flooding via QLD Police 
Mt Lindesey Hwy at Camp Cable Crossing CLOSED due to flooding via QLD Police

We are continuing the upgrade the MtLindesay_Hwy socialmedia services this morning - Apologies in advance for any old info posted.
We are continuing the upgrade the MtLindesay_Hwy socialmedia services this morning - Apologies in advance for any old info posted.

Big THANK YOU to @twitter & @facebook for their platforms to help inform folks during the #qldfloods & #bigwet.
Big THANK YOU to @twitter & @facebook for their platforms to help inform folks during the #qldfloods & #bigwet.

Crash ? Mount Lindesay Hwy Palen Creek http://j.mp/taVLd8 @news_watcher1 @QLDOnline 
Crash ? Mount Lindesay Hwy Palen Creek http://j.mp/taVLd8 @news_watcher1 @QLDOnline







Acorn Preschool














Naionra Scoil Chaitriona




????
?????????????????

?????????????????????????
?????????????
???????????????

???
?????????
?????????
??????????????????
????????????
?????

????????????
????????????????
????????
?????????????
????????????????
???????????????

????????????

??????????
????????????
?????????????????????

????????
?????
?????????


























Aging Tanka
a handfulof sandfalls rustlingthrough my fingers --time wastes mepublished in the Sep/Oct 09 issue of Sketchbook 

Autumn Night (Tanka Sequence)
one by onedrops from this middle-aged facesoak the pageI have nothing to offerbut sweat, tears, toil, and bloodI feel somethinginside me frayingsomething I've drapedmy dreams in --the chill of autumn duskas night deepensdark secrets emergeand gnaw at my heartI cut it openwith the scalpel of wordsnothingin the inner chambersof my heartexcept scattered memoriesand Lego blocks of wordsgazing upat the full moonI offer a full cupto entice her --this autumn has come to me alonescheduled for publication in the February 2010 issue of LYNX

Autumn Tanka
autumn breezerustles maple branchesby my windowas I receiveyour letter from afarpublished in Gusts, #10

Balloon Haiku
over the housewhere the boy livesa balloon still flies published in Haiku News (Nov., 12)

Bat Haiku
bats swirlingacross the prairie -ink-stained desk


Published in  the 3LIGHTS,1, Winter 2010
Anthologized in New Resonance 7: Emerging Voices in English-Language Haiku 
Featured on Per Diem of The Haiku Foundation website (June 5, 2012)

Frequent Fallacy About Mobile Application Development



Smartphones are intelligent gadgets that have modified the
way we work and understand. Cellular database integration market has seen
unmatched growth in the latest time. With fast changes it the mobile market it
is hard to keep up with the newest technology. Cellular database integration is
a complicated process and often creates organization's susceptible to making
big-ticket errors.





This publish summarizes some of the most likely misguided
beliefs about mobile database integration.



Once my App is develop, my job is done.



Novice mobile program designers, often believe that programs
sell themselves, as long as they are high on quality and performance.
Unfortunately, this isn't the truth, it's just the beginning. The App shops
were never designed with an objective to meet business specifications and in no
fashion creates your app stand out of the rest. Promotion of your mobile app is
necessary to avoid it from being missing in the viewers. There are several
marketing resources available that can be used to improve their existence in
the App shops and successfully connects the gap between the programs and
focused viewers.



Mobile database integration is a simple and instant process,
can have my app designed before you know it.



Building an app specifications both some time to skills to
create unique and impressive programs. For example, a game growth app needs
wealthy design, challenging more here we are at conceptualization and final
execution.



Mobile database integration is a expensive event and
intended for big companies only.



There is no such thing as thumbs concept for cell phone
programs, as such it is difficult to figure out the price of an app. The cost
of creating an will vary from app to app. For example, programs with more performance
are more expensive and takes more a chance to develop in comparison to those
with basic performance.



Emails are far more effective ways to provide details to
your customers and associates in comparison to specialist.



According to a study, it has been found that on a typical a
person usually spends about 2.7 hours daily on their cell phone gadgets. Also a
professional on a typical gets over 100 e-mails per day. If used in the right
way, cell phone programs can definitely functions as potential indicates of
details discussing with your customers and customers.



10 Easy Ways To Organize Your Business Finances
Whether you are a new entrepreneur or a more experienced business owner, taking control of your finances can feel like a part-time job. Some simple tips can help you streamline your time, organize your finances and reduce the stress of business money matters. 1. Keep Your Bills in One Place When the mail comes, make sure it goes in one place. Misplaced bills can be the cause of unwanted late fees and can damage your credit rating. Whether it's a drawer, a box, or a file, be consistent. Size is also important. If you get a lot of mail, use an area that won't get filled up too quickly. 2. Pay Your Bills on Schedule Bill paying can be simplified if it's done at scheduled times during the month. Depending on how many bills you receive, you can establish set times each month when none of your bills will be late. If you're paying bills as you receive them, chances are you're spending too much time in front of the checkbook. Although bills may state "Payable Upon Receipt", there's always a grace period. Call the creditor to find out when they need to receive payment before the bill is considered late. 3. Read Your Credit Card Statements Most people take advantage of low interest credit card offers but never read their statements when paying the bill. Credit cards are notorious for using low interest as bait for new customers then switching to higher rates after a few months. Make a habit of looking at your statement carefully to see what interest rate you are paying each month and if any transaction fees have been applied. If the rate increases or a transaction fee appears on your statement, a simple call to the credit card company can oftentimes be beneficial in resolving the matter. If not, try to switch your money to a more favorable rate. 4. Take Advantage of Automatic Payments Most banks offer a way to automatically deduct money from your account to pay creditors. In addition, the creditors usually offer a lower interest rate when you sign up for this payment option because they get their money faster and on-time. Consider it as one fewer check to write, envelope to lick and stamp to buy. Just make sure you record the deduction when the automatic payment is scheduled or you run the risk of bouncing other checks. 5. Computerize Your Checkbook Using a software program is a handy way to organize your finances. Whether it's Quicken(r), Microsoft Money(r) or another package, these easy-to-use programs make bill paying and bank reconciliation a cinch. Computer checks can be ordered almost anywhere and fit right into most printers. Once the checks are printed, all of the information is automatically recorded in your electronic checkbook. Furthermore, many banks have direct downloads into these software packages so when money is deposited or withdrawn, the transaction is entered immediately onto your computer. And, when it comes time to do taxes, it couldn't be easier. 6. Get Overdraft Protection Most banks have a service where, if you run the risk of bouncing a check, the money will come from another source. For a nominal fee, the bank will link your checking account to either a savings, money market, or credit card so the embarrassment of bouncing a check will be avoided. Call or visit your bank to learn about this convenient feature. 7. Cancel Unused Accounts Whether it's a credit card or bank account, write a letter requesting that the account is formally closed. Not only will this improve your credit score, it is a useful way to avoid money from being scattered all over the place. Don't let department stores and credit card companies lure you into opening new accounts by offering favorable interest rates and purchase discounts. It's easy for credit to get out of hand by taking advantage of every credit offer that comes your way. 8. Consolidate Your Accounts If you have several credit card accounts with outstanding balances, try to consolidate them into one. Be careful and check the balance transfer interest rates and one-time fees. Also, make a list of all your open Money Markets, Savings, CDs, IRAs, Mutual Funds, and other accounts to see if any consolidation can be done. Keeping your money in fewer places eliminates all of the guesswork involved and reduces errors. 9. Establish Automatic Savings Create a link from your checking account into a savings account that will not be touched. This can usually be done through the banks and automatic amounts will be transferred over each month. Most people will not put money into a savings account on a regular basis. They may wait until a large tax refund check arrives or some other event to actually deposit money into savings, retirement or other accounts. If you establish an automatic savings deposit every month, your accounts will begin accumulating money faster than you think. 10. Clean up Your Files Make sure your paid bills are organized in a filing cabinet. Keep individual files for paid bills. Go through your files at the end of each year and throw out bills and receipts no longer needed for auditing purposes. Contact your local IRS office to see how long records need to be kept for audits. Usually federal tax return audits can be done three years back but cancelled checks may need to be kept for seven. Consult the Internet for auditing and records-keeping procedures for your state or region. (c) 2005 DebtGuru.com(r). This article may be freely distributed as long as the signature file and active link are included. About the author:Michael G. Peterson is the Vice President of American Credit Foundation, an IRS 501 (c)(3) non-profit consumer credit counseling organization that has assisted thousands of individuals and families with their financial situations through seminars, education, counseling services, and, debt management plans. For more information, and free consumer resources visit http://www.debtguru.com. Written by: Michael G. Peterson

1st And 2nd Mortgage Refinance Loan - Why Refinance Both Mortgages?
The hassle of making two monthly mortgage payments has prompted many homeowners to consider refinancing their 1st and 2nd mortgages into one loan. While combining both loans into one mortgage is convenient, and may save you money, homeowners should carefully weigh the risks and advantages before choosing to refinance their mortgages. Benefits Associated with Combining 1st and 2nd Mortgages Aside from consolidating your mortgages and making one monthly payment, a mortgage consolidation may lower your monthly payments to mortgage lenders. If you acquired your 1st or 2nd mortgage before home loan rates began to decline, you are likely paying an interest rate that is at least two points above current market rates. If so, a refinancing will greatly benefit you. By refinancing both mortgages with a low interest rate, you may save hundreds on your monthly mortgage payment. Furthermore, if you accepted a 1st and 2nd mortgage with an adjustable mortgage rate, refinancing both loans at a fixed rate may benefit you in the long run. Even if your current rates are low, these rates are not guaranteed to remain low. As market trends fluctuated, your adjustable rate mortgages are free to rise. Higher mortgage rates will cause your mortgage payment to climb considerably. Refinancing both mortgages with a fixed rate will ensure that your mortgage remains predictable. Disadvantages to Refinancing 1st and 2nd Mortgage Before choosing to refinance your mortgages, it is imperative to consider the drawbacks of combining both mortgages. To begin, refinancing a mortgage involves the same procedures as applying for the initial mortgage. Thus, you are required to pay closing costs and fees. In this case, refinancing is best for those who plan to live in their homes for a long time. If your credit score has dropped considerably within recent years, lenders may not approve you for a low rate refinancing. By refinancing and consolidating both mortgages, be prepared to pay a higher interest rate. Before accepting an offer, carefully compare the savings. Moreover, refinancing your two mortgages may result in you paying private mortgage insurance (PMI). PMI is required for home loans with less than 20% equity. To avoid paying private mortgage insurance, homeowners may consider refinancing both mortgages separately, as opposed to consolidating both mortgage loans.

1st And 2nd Mortgage Refinance Loan
Refinancing a first and second mortgage requires some extra considerations. Depending on your equity, you may find that combining the two mortgages results in a higher interest rate. You may also find that you have to carry PMI with the refinanced mortgage. Will Refinancing Benefit You? Refinancing two mortgages allows you to consolidate your loans into one payment, often lowering your monthly bill. You may also find lower rates under the right circumstances. Those with a large amount of equity benefit most from consolidating loans since they qualify for the lowest rates. It is important to look at interest savings, not just monthly numbers which can be misleading. However, if you have less than 25% equity, you may end up qualifying for higher rates. With less than 20% equity, you will also have to pay for private mortgage insurance. Even with these factors, you may still find that you will save money by refinancing. Have You Done Your Research? To see if refinancing makes sense for you, research mortgage lenders. You can quickly go online and request quotes and terms. Look at the different offers, and work out the numbers. An online mortgage calculator can help you figure out monthly payments and interest costs. An easy way to compare cost is to first add up your interest payments for both mortgages. Use this number to compare interest payments with each potential mortgage. You also need to factor in the cost of refinancing. Just like with your original mortgage, you will have to pay fees and points. You want to be sure that you can recoup these costs with your interest savings. Why Do You Want To Refinance Both Mortgages? While refinancing both mortgages is convenient, you may decide to refinance only one or both separately. With your main mortgage, you can expect to get low rates. A second mortgage will usually qualify for higher rates, but you can lock them in. You may also choose to convert from a line of credit to an actual mortgage. Again, you will want to investigate financial packages before signing up with a lender.

4 Good Reasons to Get a Refinance Home Loan
Refinance Your Home Now and Lower Your Interest RateWhat is a refinance home loan? A refinance home loan or a home loan refinance is a new loan obtained through your lender or a new lender to pay off existing loan. However, you may opt to apply for a lower interest rate and or cash out on your homes equity.When should I refinance my home? It is a known fact that interest rates are lower than they have been in years. This is due to our fast paced and ever changing economy and market. Now would be the perfect opportunity to refinance your home to obtain a lower interest rate. Even a .25 difference can save you thousands of dollars a year in mortgage payments. Why should I refinance my home?There are several reasons home owners decides to refinance. The four most common reasons include:To obtain a lower interest rateHome owner generally are aware of interest rate down fall. They take advantage of this opportunity by applying to a refinance loan to lower their existing interest rates and save money on mortgage expenses. The money that a borrower saves on mortgage expenses can be invested in other financial investments.To receive a refinance cash outSome home owners who have enough equity accumulated in their homes refinance to cash out their equity and get a lower interest rateTo make home improvementsSooner than later you will find that maintaining your home is hard work (not to mention quite expensive). In most cases, home owners will pursue a refinance, rather than a personal loan, in order to save on interest rates. A personal loan may have higher interest rates and are normally, not as large as a home improvement loan. To change loan programsA majority of home owner refinance because they are not satisfied with their current loan program. They may be under a 5 year arm, but somewhere down the line they decided they would prefer a 30 year fixed loan. Whatever the reason may be, a refinance home loan will solve the problem.What are the benefits of refinancing my home?There are several benefits included with refinancing your home, including:Your credit may be in better standings then before you purchased your home, now you can refinance and obtain a more suitable loan, with lower interest rates and terms.Or, you can obtain a home equity line of credit and have cash available when you need it.With refinance cash out, your lender can consolidate your bills and pay off all of your debt. You will not have to deal with the hassle by yourself.What are the different refinance loan options?As with a traditional loan, refinance home loans offer some of the same loan programs, such as:10/15/30 year fixedZero DownInterest OnlyAnd so onWhere can I refinance my loan?You can apply for a refinance home loan through your current lender. Or you may search for a new lender more suitable to your financial needs. This search can be done by internet search, flipping through the yellow pages, or consulting with your real estate agent.

Adverse Credit Remortgage: Refinance at Better Terms
Getting a remortgage with adverse credit is a daunting task and it is increasingly becoming a widespread problem in UK. An adverse credit remortgage is a type of mortgage, which is particularly used by people who have adverse remarks in their credit history. Adverse credit ratings are rising as people are finding it difficult to repay the loans they took in order to remedy their financial exigencies. The credit ratings are remarks given by your previous creditors based on your repayment history. If you are punctual and prompt in repaying the installments they give you a positive remark and a negative rating incurs, if you miss their installments and are erratic in the repayment schedule. Lenders are wary of this negative or adverse credit rating. They find it risky to lend any amount to such persons and reject their applications in most of the cases.While, applying for an Adverse credit remortgage, the borrower has to face two kinds of situations. In the first case, although he has an adverse credit rating against him, he can offer something like a house or home equity as a collateral to the remortgage. In second case the borrower with the adverse credit history doesn't have anything to offer as collateral or the value of collateral is not adequate to guarantee the loan.The lenders, if they find that they can get something as collateral for the remortgage offer, are prompt in lending as compared to a situation where they have to lend solely on the basis of creditworthiness of the borrower. The lenders are comfortable by the fact that if the borrower defaults in payments, they can repossess the collateral. Depending on the collateral and creditworthiness, lenders fix interest rates, lending amount and the repayment schedules.Remortgaging involves changing the mortgage without changing the existing house or property. Adverse credit remortgage can be used for getting a better deal on mortgage from a different lender. It can also be used to get an improved deal on mortgage from the existing lender. Adverse credit remortgage may also be used to provide funds or to get a loan on the increased equity in home or property. They are very useful in consolidating existing debts from various sources into one single manageable loan. Emergency expenditures like the purchase of a car, a holiday, some reconstruction or medical bills can be funded by such remortgages.Getting an adverse credit remortgage to finance these purchases is considered a wise option because remortgage offers lower interest rates and easy repayment options as compared to other methods of borrowing. People with adverse credit should be very cautious while taking a remortgage. Mortgage lenders in UK are squeezing such people with higher interest rates and unreasonable terms and conditions. Remortgaging involves many fees, which increase the cost of the process. There are early redemption penalties, re-appraisal of property, solicitor fees, office and conveyance charges, which have to be taken into consideration while taking an adverse credit remortgage. The fact that a borrower has an adverse credit rating makes the situation even worse for him. As the lending market in UK is very competitive the borrower is advised to shop around for lenders, which offer zero product fees, cashback, free basic property valuation and minimum fee for legal and other expenses. A good lender, who provides adverse credit remortgage will negotiate the best possible deal on prepayment penalties for its client. Finding such a lender is not easy but ultimately it will be worth the effort. For most of us, if we have something to offer as collateral, getting an adverse credit remortgage will be quite easy. The new lender will ask for all the documents and complete the formalities. If everything goes smoothly, it won't take long to get an adverse credit remortgage. Andrew baker has done his masters in finance from CPIT. He is engaged in providing free, professional, and independent advice to the residents of the UK.He works for the Secured loan web site uk finance world for any type of uk secured and unsecured loan please visit http://www.ukfinanceworld.co.ukAbout the Author Andrew baker has done his masters in finance from CPIT. He is engaged in providing free, professional, and independent advice to the residents of the UK.He works for the Secured loan web site uk finance world for any type of uk secured and unsecured loan please visit http://www.ukfinanceworld.co.ukWritten by: Andrew Baker

At last - some runners!
24th January 2009 - Velvet Blu's first start of the season at Larkhill. Will Telfor rode her in the Intermediate, a hot race but there wasn't a restricted and we wanted her to have a start as there was a chance that Thorpe may be cancelled due to bad weather. She was travelling really well four from home when she clipped the top of the fence and stumbled onto her nose, she nearly found a fifth leg but just got bumped and went over. Will was gutted and lay on the floor some way from the fence cursing.... we were just pleased that she was OK. The most important thing is that she is around to fight another day. Will's comment "I was just wondering when to let her go - she's a machine!" In hindsight Velvet Blu was probably a bit over the top as she has been ready to run now for the last month and was probably a little too keen at her fences. She is having her next run at Horseheath on 31st January.25th January 2009 - Velvet Dream's very first start at the Heythrop. We were lucky enough to get David Mansell to ride her who gave her a peach of a ride. The ground was very tacky and only two got home in the first division so the most important thing to us was that she learnt something, having enjoyed her day out and wasn't bottomed. David made sure that she could see every fence and by the time she came around the second time she was jumping like an old hand. David pulled her up when she was still on the bridle but made a slight mistake two from home which could have been tiredness. There was only two in front of her at this stage so we were absolutely delighted. She has been such a difficult horse to get to the track that we thought this day would never happen. David came back beaming "What a bonny mare!" He was delighted with her jumping and her attitude which was very workmanlike. He would like to ride her in the mares only maiden at Whitwick Manor on the 21st February. It is a bit far off as she has come out of her race so well but she is an easy horse to do even though she is fully fit so should be OK.28th January 2009 - David Mansell came to school Velvet Blu, Velvet Red and Velvet Dove. They all jumped really well in particular Blu and surprisingly Red. He will be riding Blu in the restricted at Horseheath - Red is still about two weeks off running. Pennytino (trained by Gerald Bailey) won her restricted really well at Thorpe at the weekend which makes Red's form look pretty good as there was only a very short head between them at the Oakley pt to pt last year and Red has since had a wind operation which (fingers crossed) seems to have worked.29th January - We took Velvet Frog (not named yet but French bred!) to Paul Webbers for a loose schooling session. We went to Goffs National Hunt sale on the 10th December with the idea to buy a foal to keep Dove's foal company. The sale ring was completely empty with no buyers so we ended up buying 4 fillies, all from winning mares at a very reasonable price. Velvet Frog was one of the fillies - she was 4 years old and supposedly hadn't been broken in, she was a big rangy mare, covered in rain scald but with a nice winning pedigree so we took the risk. She has been broken in now for 7 weeks and is going unbelievably well although about two weeks ago we hit a brick wall with her where she didn't want to go forward and kept on rearing up. We began to think that someone had tried with her before and failed - checked her back and her teeth but nothing wrong so gave her 10 days rest and started again. Since then she hasn't looked back, has been on long hacks around the farm, gently up the gallops (with Doug on board!!) and has popped poles in the school. As she gets bored very quickly we thought it was time to put her over bigger obstacles to see how she coped and we were delighted - she just loved it and was a complete natural. We had difficulty stopping her, she would still be jumping around now if she had her way!The downside was when we had finished we went back to the trailer where her travelling companion (Velvet Dove) had half jumped over the front bar and was completely stuck. At one stage we feared the worse but once we had managed to lift her back over there was no serious damage, just nasty scrapes and she will probably be rather sore in the morning. We can't understand what she was thinking of as she comes to all the race meetings now as a companion to the youngsters and is normally as good as gold. She is old enough to know better....


Velvet Frog loose schooling yesterdayHorrible cold wind. All horses on walker.Phil came this morning to ride out. He was supposed to be riding Red but when he got on she groaned and almost sunk to the ground - took the saddle off and she had swollen withers - can't understand it as the saddle always has a jelly pad underneath plus a nice sheepskin numnah and she has never had problems before. It was painful enough to be hawthorn but we couldn't see anything. She has had hot and cold poultices and is spending the day in her box.Phil rode Dove instead, I was on Dream and Doug on Frog. We did once up the all weather and then around the grass gallop twice and up the hill. Dove very strong and still not settling. She doesn't seem to be feeling any ill effects after her accident with the trailer yesterday. Dream felt very well but only does exactly the amount she needs to do and the Frog went incredibly well - just learning to stretch out and loving it. Very much on her toes on the way back. We went back down the all weather and Dove thought she was going back up, when we turned for home she planted and wouldn't go a yard except backwards. In the end Doug got on board and off she went. She knows she can take the mickey. So much ability but so difficult to manage. She needs more hunting.Velvet Blu had her bath and is having a quiet day, saving her energy for tomorrow. Frog, Dove and Dream turned out.David Mansell is riding Velvet Blu - the best man for the job at this stage as she is still relatively inexperienced over fences. She is very well in herself and should win,,,,,,


 Alan and Anne Beckett  came for lunch yesterday and watched Dream and Red go up the gallops first. Alan used to farm on a large scale in the Wythall area near Birmingam. In the 1960's he also started up a small farm shop which is now hugely successful. Alan and Anne are the sort of people who think nothing of jumping on a tandem and cycling from John O' Groats to Lands End or walking the entire coastal path of Britain - they put us (marginally) younger mortals to shame.They are both Nuffield Scholars and were kind enough to award me the Alan and Anne Beckett award in 1997. I can honestly say that it has been the best thing I have ever done and I have not looked back since. So, thank you so much, Alan and Anne for giving me that unique opportunity.

More snow
The chooks hate the snow, but Jack and the horses love it.As we couldn't do much with the horses and Doug couldn't go to work we did some office work and then I 'supervised' the erection of several nesting boxes around the garden and in the small spinney next to the house. Our garden is full of birds at the moment because of the hard weather and I'm filling the feeders twice a day as they are so hungry. I am hoping that by putting the nesting boxes up we will encourage them to stay with us so that I can enjoy the dawn chorus in the Spring time.Yesterday Georgia came to ride out and we took Dove, Dream and the Frog once around the circular gallop and twice uphill. Frog was really on her toes and rather a handful, the snow flicking up seemed to unsettle her, I was rather pleased I was riding Dream and Dove was unusually well behaved.  This was the first time we had been out without Blu since her death and we all felt it very deeply. She was our benchmark, and it was difficult not to compare the other horses with her and wonder how she would have coped with the snow. We miss her so much...  In the afternoon we took Dove to see a chap called Roy who is a guru on problem horses and can normally find a reason why they are behaving badly or not moving as well as one would expect. He is the 'last chance saloon' as generally speaking you have already tried the vet and the chiropractor before you resort to Roy. He spent an hour and a half on Dove and found three main problems, the worst of which was between the base of her neck and the top of her shoulder. It was a muscle very difficult to get to and had been in spasm for some time, he thought it could well be why she suddenly freezes, runs backwards and blocks on the right rein. She is normally so feisty and yet it was interesting to see how she seemed desperate for him to release the tight muscles and was leaning in to him even though it looked really painful as Roy uses all his strength. When he had finished Georgia rode her around the school and her stride had lengthened by 8 inches. Only time will tell whether this is the reason why she plants - fingers crossed.Late afternoon we decided to brave the elements and see what the outside world was like - partly because I suddenly realised we had almost run out of potatoes - Doug thinks it goes back to my Irish genes and that I have deep seated flashbacks to the potato famine - I simply cannot bear not to have potatoes in the house, anyway, we were rather disappointed that the roads were not as bad as we thought they were going to be, there were no stranded cars, nobody hitch hiking and in the village of Byfield not one single person fell over, it wasn't like the BBC news at all. It made me feel rather guilty for not getting all my orders done today as I had assumed that the post wouldn't be picked up so there was little point.After we had bought the potatoes we had a lovely walk around Boddington reservoir and on the drive home just as it was getting dark I saw two Barn Owls, separately, one was hovering near Milton's (I didn't know Barn Owls hovered, but it was definitely a Barn Owl and not a Kestrel) and one just near the bottom of our drive. I love Barn Owls and have just bought a Barn Owl nesting box and it would give me so much pleasure if it was actually used. I wonder how I can let them know about the 5 star accommodation waiting for them here at Blackgrounds farm?

At last - Spring (sort of)
 Just watched a great game of Rugby between France and Wales - France won by 5 points - It was a ferocious game with both sides putting their bodies on the line and although France deserved to win, Wales were unlucky not to score a try in the last few minutes. It was such a lovely spring like day today. About time we saw the sun. Everything has started to grow and dry out. We have made rather a mess of the paddocks during the wet winter so Doug was out there on his quad, fertilising, re-seeding and harrowing. I thought I would get in first before he is too busy doing other people's paddocks.. We took Red, Frog and Dove to the uphill gallop this morning. Dove went up first time full of enthusiasm but then decided she didn't want to go up again. Ben Case's lot were milling around the bottom of the gallop and she got a bit worked up, although that is no excuse and I think she is just taking the mickey now. She went up eventually, catching the Case string up, but it just adds more pressure on us now for the start of a race as she cannot afford to do that then. Very disappointing as we thought we had sorted that problem out. I am still reluctant to get really hard on her as we have tried that before and it didn't work. Having said that, maybe she thinks I'm a soft touch and Doug should get back on with spurs. Red went really well and isn't lame at all now. However, her recovery rate was still not good (110 bpm) so it will be a couple of weeks before she will be ready to race. Frog, went really well, and although she had a high of 190 bpm her recovery rate is coming down nicely (94 bpm) Because Dove had mis-behaved she went out again with Dream on a hack. We started to trot and Georgia was concerned about how high Dream's HR was. We gave her time to recover and then trotted again and it shot up to over 200 bpm. This was in comparison to Dove's that was 46 bpm. She is obviously still very unwell and although she felt fine to ride and is eating really well her virus is obviously kicking in. Dream and Georgia went back as it wasn't worth the risk and I took Dove for a really long hack making her trot the whole way - it was her punishment as she hates trotting.  We would have entered Dream for racing next weekend but will leave it a couple of weeks now until we know she is right. Annoyingly, we didn't put a HR monitor on Dream the day before she raced because we only have three monitors and four horses went out, as Dream was only doing light work we didn't think it was necessary but it would have been very interesting to see what her readings were and it would probably have saved us the journey down to Whitwick Manor and a P (pulled up) besides her name.With the spring like weather things have been pretty busy with Equine Fitness - Girth Heart Monitors have been going all over the world including Australia, America, Sweden, Poland and Ireland. The Irish girths have gone to a chap called Con Manane who specialises in buying and selling two year olds. He uses the HM on a treadmill and decides from his results which one's are worth keeping and which one's should be sold on. The more people who collect data with regards to heart rates in horses the more invaluable the information will become to all trainers. It is amazing how 'traditional'  most English trainers are though and how reluctant they are to embrace any 'new' ideas.

MY TRUE GOD
ALMIGHTY king IS ALL GLORIOUS PERFECT AMAZING HOLY ALMIGHTY HE IS ALMIGHTY GODin reference to: "Almighty King"- artofthecross.com - My Albums/Cd's (view on Google Sidewiki)

An Answer... (Industrial Setting)
How can you motivate and engage your people to be more active, more open, more productive?

It's easier than you think. Being open, being honest, and being a good listener are the "Three Big Truths of Motivating Your Employees."

Being honest: Being a leader does not mean being the right person for every job----or every situation. Suggesting someone with more expertise in a certain area is not passing the buck--- it's just being honest about your strengths and weaknesses. Admit what you don't know or what makes you uncomfortable. For example, one of your people may be having a problem with another manager with whom you have a personal relationship. It's perfectly appropriate for you to direct the person to someone else in the company for assistance with this issue.

Being open: By being open to discussion, you reveal that you want to hear what is going on and you are inviting conversation. Show your curiosity by asking open-ended questions that don't require multiple-choice answers to limit the response in any way. Questions that require more than just a "yes" or "no" answer can often be the most revealing in mentoring conversations. Open-ended questions such as "What are your thoughts on.. or "How might we go about this?" invite an open response.

Being a listener: Most managers and employees will admit that they don't really understand each other well, but they want to. Listening closely can help you check your understanding of what an employee is saying, and help you guess at underlying goals, needs and fears. Communication is a road travelled by two people. The destination should be a compromise of both, not a bending of the wills from one to another, The leader must have the patience to let the employee participate and present their point of view fully. Only when both parties are engaged in the conversation will true engagement in the work follow.

GOD is an AWESOME GOD He Reigns.. (Aug15,2010)


God has His own way of leading us in His Wil.







He is very sweet when it comes to letting you understand His Will for your life and He NEVER forgets your desires even when your just a kid.





God has taught me many things about life so far in my 20years 10months and 15 days. When He brings you to something or somewhere He will surely make you through it.





As I grow older each year, Ive come to realize that every thing that had happened before is very useful to the challenges Im facing at present. Without every trial I faced before, I won't be who I am right now.





Our Lord's Works are REALLY INDESCRIBABLE and His Timing is REALLY AWESOME.





The Lord is My Shepherd, Psalm 23 is really meaningful. His Word is the foundation of everything that exists in this world. It transcends to all aspects of our lives.





He never fails you when He promised something. Just cling to Him despite what other people tell you and say about you. Because the MOST IMPORTANT thing you should value and put into heart is WHAT HE SAY AND KNOW ABOUT YOU. IN HIS EYES. NOT IN PEOPLE'S EYES.





Don't be discouraged of what people say about you or do to you because in His due time like what is stated in the Bible that vengeance is His.





Cast all your cares to Him because HE REALLY CARES FOR YOU THAT NO ONE IN THIS WORLD CAN BE COMPARED.





Having a child-like faith is very hard to have esp. When you're older bec. Your pride also increases as you grow older so sometimes you tend to have the feeling that you "know it all" but young ones, don't lose heart and continue to have that child-like faith as you grow older each year. Because the blessings you receive in having a child-like faith is more abundant.





Stay strong child of God. Don't be discouraged. Just do your part and in due time you will reap the harvest.





O LORD GOD MY FATHER. Thank you. ALL HONOR AND GLORY IS YOURS.

WHY AM I SO TIRED?
WHY AM I SO TIRED?For a couple years I've been blaming it on lack of sleep, not enough sunshine, and too much pressure from my job, ear-wax build-up, poor blood or  anything else I could think of. Now I've found out the real reason I'm tired -- because I'm overworked.Here's why:The population of New Zealand is about 4 million.1.4 million are retired, that leaves 2.6 million to do the work.There are 0.5 million in school, which leaves 2.1 million to do the work.Of this there are 1.2 million are directly employed by the government, leaving 0.9 million to do the work. 0.25 Million are in the combined armed forces, preoccupied with cleaning their rifles, which leaves 0.5 million to do the work.Take from that total the 0.35 million people who work for regional and city councils, and that leaves 0.3 million to do the work.At any given time, there are 76,000 people in hospitals, leaving 224,000 to do the work.Now, there are 11,998 people in prisons or awaiting sentence and 212,000 on welfare.That leaves just two people to do the work.You and me.And there you are sitting on your backside, at your computer, reading jokes

Good Bye!
Today was a little bit messy: Mum missed the train. I had to take Sylvia to Albert's place. But Mum eventually made it. I took her back - I was late for work and poor Sylvia rushed out to say good bye while I drove away in a hurry...... She cried like hell."Say Sorry Sylvia"(This is an old photo, taken with Canon 1D MarkII, ??"???" from Jason)

Introducing Sylvia
This week, I am planing to upload some old stuff: the images were used in her very first website.

Isn't She Lovely?
She is just so lovely! When she called me daddy at PH, just so ?!She had some Steamed salmon and egg, then some fish ball, then some diary food.She was smacked by both Dad and Mum today: poor little one.***These photos were taken before at Western Spring, I just love these sequences.Some problems loading photos. Shame!

New Jammie
Sylvia's new Jammie, Thanx Mum!

Nomore Waiting in Line
This new implementation will provide a much more efficient alternative to the visas given in border gates and allow visitors to save precious time.
Citizens of 94 countries who wish to visit Turkey for commercial or travel purposes can take advantage of this system.
The system is particularly helpful for those looking to simultaneously obtain visas to multiple countries.

    

RE-UNION 1







RE-UNION 2


RE-UNION 3













RE-UNION 5

























RE-UNION











Hey what u doin


asdasd sdasd sadfasdas dasdas





hmm

February 04
mind heart body & soul of me ...............Sunday, February 22, 2004Going To SydneyReceived bad news sad news trying tostay positive ,but its not easy.Will be offlineTc'z// posted by sweetspirit @ 3:28 PMSaturday, February 21, 2004Still hereListening to You Remind MeI like this song ,kinda reminds me of whats happening right now.But of course the lyrics would change a little from girlto guy hmm well. But how do you tell someone that?Guess better to avoid the person hmm but thats kindaslack,oh well whatever gotta go get kewlll hmmmmmm.Gonetcz// posted by sweetspirit @ 12:43 PMSaturday'sSaturday's are my whatever day,i never plananything for saturday.It's a day i just do whatmust be done,then do whatever i want yeahSo i better do what i must then i am goingto spend my afternoon at the beach yeah a nice secluded one.Wanna come join me hehe,you could beso lucky haha just being silly.TomorrowI will spend at the Bay ,i would go tonight for barbiebut total fire ban because of the heatwave sighz.The bay is so beautifulSo much to do around newie and the lake but hey i could never ride the 32 kmaround the Lake wooo i am to unfit .Yeah my gym is in here with my pc and i haven't worked out for several days ,too hot .Well any excuse is better than none.Well gotta go the waves are calling me hehe.sunrise over the beaches huhgotta gotc'z// posted by sweetspirit @ 12:04 PMFriday, February 20, 2004My DaySo so hot gotta go to the beach soon yeah stay thereuntil 8pm or 9pm.So busy today went shopping oh wow did i goshopping, David Jone's, Wanted Shoe's so luvtheir stock,Azir Malayy nice clothes yah,,tried on some seven jeansBut hmm did really like them heaps of stylesto choose but cost $320:00 hmm guess don'tspend that much on them not yet anyway.Maybe buy them in winter ,,brrrreeee hehe.Anyways went to some many places ,cue luvtheir stock too,but in the end i went to myFavorite Store Ice yeah so love icedesignsmy fav store of course yeah bought lotsof nice stuff there.Then went seaching for stilboots yay of course best place WantedShoe store.so have my outfix now forEnrique concert,,,yah yum ay hehe.Then had several meetings made one on timethe rest was very late doh well what to do.I am only human hehe,and it's very hotso i am off to the beach yayyyyyyyyyytc'z// posted by sweetspirit @ 3:23 PMAAAAAAARRRRHHHHHGGGGGGI freakin hate itttttttttttttttttttoneday i will never have 2 doanything cause of ,,,,,,,,,,,,,My life wil be mine all mineGawd i just wanna stomp my feet.grrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrr deep breathforget it,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,// posted by sweetspirit @ 3:19 PMZzzzzzzzHow much sleep do i need ,more than i havehehe.Well done my chores yay,just as welltoday will be like 41 deg boo hoo and i haveto go so many places drat's .My best will have a c section today,her 5thbaby .Today we were trying to decide onwhat to name him .We have this thingabout names you know ,we have to makesure that the name isn't the same as some onewe don't like haha.Yeah who wants to be remindedof a person they don't like.Anyways wish i couldgo see her but ,i can't at this time sighz.She is 8.5 hrs away from me oh well.Anyways i am in a chatroom so i betta gochat nag whatever.tc'z// posted by sweetspirit @ 1:37 AMThursday, February 19, 2004More Like Me ,,,,Less Like YouYeah wanna be more like me ,less like you haha jjjust joking.Lately i think i am becoming more like Jessica Simpsonyeah don't wanna do housework hehe,and of coursewe have onething in common.You wondering whatit is haha guess its two things ,,don't like cleaningand have huge bath to clean i hate climbing insidemy bath yah.I need a housemaid any offers hehe open to maleand female hehe jj.Well i did watch Once upon a time in mexico ,arhhi love it could watch it again again again nagian hehe.Well i had busy busy day so tired zzzz .Went to bedearly last night,only to be woken by a call grrrr .Sohate it when i leave my phone downstairs yah.Well i am really too tired to blog about n e thingworth while zzzzz need sleep badly and must cleanmy bedroom n walkin robe boo hoo sighz.Yeah better go cleanListen to Guns n RosesNovember RainTc'z// posted by sweetspirit @ 5:30 PMWednesday, February 18, 2004Once Upon A Time In MexicoI have been going to watch this movie for the past fewweeks, ho hum what to say i just have an over load of dvd's to watch n get caught up on here chatting my life away.Anyway decided to skip through it today,the dvd not mylife hehe .Yeah i only wanted to watch Enriquestrong> can't believe its been sitting here for so longand i didn't watch it earlier hmmm his yum ay ,,heheSo anyway decided i better watch it tonight ,plus a few others too many to list.Anyway gonna go and live in real world for awhilebeen spending too much time online chatting .Hmm wanted to fix this blog up properly, justi just have too many ppl on my im that i don'teven recall 90% of them,well ya get that ,,yah.ok gotta gotc'z// posted by sweetspirit @ 6:16 PMSoulmate,,,,,Or ,,,,,,Perfect MatchLove,,,,,,,,,,Or,,,,,,,,Lust// posted by sweetspirit @ 11:06 AMTuesday, February 17, 2004Must Do ListMy mind is so consumed with Enrique concert hehe,yeahwhile driving i see Sydney signs and think ''oh 26 days toyay yes so can't wait.Haha i am driving everyone crazy.When i went to my tickets i couldn't believe the guy behind the counter.He said he lost my seats ,i was like huh whatin my mind thinking this guy don't know what his doingblah blah .He asked for payment ,then says oh i lost your seats hmmm i wasn't impressed .Thinking get me some others ,better still get some one over here who knows hows to use the pc and book my tickets .So his blabingon i was like gawd plz get someone over here to sortthis out.Then finally he asks another guy to come over and help him.Phew lucky the other guy knew what he was doing,finally got my tickets and left for Newie foreshoredecide to go up the tower and see the views so nice.Then home to put my tickets in a safe place,,yeah .So now i just count down the days ,i am likea child waiting for santa to come hehe.Anyways i so can't wait ,i wish i didn't have otherplaces to go on that day,cause i could of spent thewhole weekend in Darling HarbourOh well guess we will leave about 1:30pm it's only 1:20 min to Sydney from my place,its getting through the citythat is more time consuming.Well i will be taking heaps of pic n videos of my tripand will put some up on my imagestation.Anyway i have lots too do,gotta go edit some videosHelp a friend with pc prob's and some housework.I beta go do ittc'z// posted by sweetspirit @ 12:08 PMThings To Do ,,,,Places To GoListening to Savage Garden DVD,,,It's too goodWell right now i am so tired,need to go back to bed hmmmand sleep for a week hehe.Yes i have been spending too much time online,but what to do i am addicted hehe,yeah right whatever.Well i have been catching up with old chat friends,itskewl some chat friends or virtual chat friends ofmine just seem to always come back into my life.Even when we have lost contact for several months or a year ,but nothing seems to change .We just pick upfrom where we left sounds crazy but it's kewl.I like having chat friends like that ,its kinda like nothing changes between us in that time,guess because if a friendship never crosses over the line to become moreyou can never loose it .Thats the best thing about friendship just staying friends.I don't why but most of my male friends always want to be more than friends hmm that gets annoying at timesand so then i always avoid them for awhile .But anyways whatever hehe,i have been given someof the most beautiful poems in regard to friendshipthe nicest one i received last week,its so beautifulthat i can't share it online cause it's mine heheand it's titled Best Friends i thank you my bfriendfor such beautiful words and shall never forget ta.Anyway as they say there is no better gift thanfriendship ,throughout it all a true friend willaccept your faults and differences and notjudge you as there is not such thing asperfection in humans.Poetry for today ...What more can i say ,but leave you with this,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,Could we but draw back the curtain, that surrounds each others lives,see the naked heart and spirit; know what spur the action gives;often we would find it better, purer then we think we would.We would love each other better, if we only understood.Author Unknown// posted by sweetspirit @ 11:10 AMMonday, February 16, 2004The many forms of ArtI wonder how many people consider tattoos as a art form.I myself consider it to be ,although the tatooist must beskilled to apply his artwork or obviously the work willlook like ,,,,,whatever is that thing.I was reading my fav Malaysian site the starTattoo JournalsI must say i like the tat's design on Terence and Jessia,i am currently trying to decide what my next tat will be.Yes i have two tat's ,a black rose on my right sidelower back and a redback spider on my left,,,,,,,,,But i am not going to have a pic of anything,i amchoosing a chinese symbol i believe i will chooseETERNITYYes its a personal thing but i do like destiny also,anyways if ur thinking of getting a chinese symboldo go to Andres Leo site ,i might get have the dragonsymbol.Song for today,,,Differences ,,,by GinuwineWell that is all from me for todayGotta go tc'z// posted by sweetspirit @ 11:30 AMSunday, February 15, 2004Book WormYes tonight i am going to spend a few hours readingi am really too tired to blog.I just had such a busy day going here n there zzzzzWell i gotta spend more time drawing n painting nless time blogging boo hoo .Anyways listening to Cras n Burn ,,Savage GardenReading The world of LeonardoThe world of MichelangeloYes they were my bargin buys today at q'sAnyways might blog about it another timeNightzzzz tc'zz// posted by sweetspirit @ 11:14 PMzzzzzz tiredThinking about youWatched rage this morning how strange that on ragethey played My Immortal,,then Here Without You,,,,,Then When Your Gone,,,, n then Numb luv them songsWell yeah the above isn't strange ,but in the afternoonwhile listening too nxfm they played the same songsin the same order ,,,,yeah whatever gonna go nowhave n early start in the morning boohoo no zzz in.Nightzzz tc'zzzz// posted by sweetspirit @ 1:58 AMSaturday, February 14, 2004zzzzzz soooo zzzzzsleepyzzzzzzzzzMust go to bed oh might go watch rage or Savage Gardendvd hmm to the moon n back ,yah thats my song heheyeah i just like too many songs.I so can't wait until i go to Sydney n c Enrique hmmmmyeah thinking nothing better go wrong on that day.Nahit won't it will be a perfect day n night.Well i really gotta go to bed ,for 1 hr zzzzzzzzzzzzzzzwinkzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzz.Maybe oh i love that songoh no off topic again ,will fall asleep here zzzzzzzzzzzznightzzzzzz tc'z// posted by sweetspirit @ 6:01 AMAround the globe on V DayIn Newie we have pash off woo thethings ppl will do 4 2g you can readabout it here nxfmAs i couldn't be bothered bloggingtoo much more im all blogged outall i know is the longest pash wasaround 31.5 hrs woooooooooooand that in a average life timethe average person will spend 2 wksmwa'ingWell i was amazed to read this articleon V day Kissingguess itz happening all over the world ,well soon enough,, as time goes by.Well to my lost lone w ,my song toyou on this day,Here without youlost without you,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,Are you happy now ,whatevergotta gotc'z// posted by sweetspirit @ 2:05 AM''''''''HAPPY VALENTINE'S DAY'''''''So what will i do today hmm on thisv day zzzz sleep n watch rage hmmnot giving any cards v day is sooooover rated hehe for yrs u havebeen able to buy cards for anyonebrothers sisters daughters sonshuh going too far.Anywayz last yr i spent the daygoing to my fav spots in NewieWhata beautiful day,walkingalong Redhead beach in the rainyeah i didn't need a companionthe rain fell softly upon me.I love it walkn in the rainof course then i went toanother fav place myjungle n paradise ofsolitude .Next week iwill add some pic's to myalbum ,yah u gotta gothere if ya wanna c mewith my Valentine mwajust click on the albumlink if ya curious hehe.tc'z// posted by sweetspirit @ 1:48 AMStar gazing ,,,I love itWalking in the rain ,,I luv itOn the beach,,,,,,,yah i luv itI luv being aloneDoing my own thingStrange nah thats just meOh wellSo many mistakes on my blogsilly pc hehe yeah blamemy pc ,no not me not inot my fault hahaOkies now updateI want Calvin Kleineverything hehe, nah i want Eternity love eau de parfumwhy cause itz limited edition "sighz"I also want One eau de parfumand a picture of you hehe.Of course i want Calvin Klein clothingas mine is wearing thin hehe,yahlike some of his styles.Anywayz i we all want itz in ournature to want hehe.Well i should listen to somemusic hmm savage gardenhmm Enrique yeahhhhhhhso can't wait to c him only4 weeks n 38hrs yayzzzzyummmmmmmmmmmzzYeah i will not stop ravingabout him ,but will blogabout him lata.Oh so Enrique n Annabroke up a month agoso say,,and yesterdayBarbie n Ken brokeup haha i mean whoreally cares about Barbien Ken how stupid blah.// posted by sweetspirit @ 1:09 AMOh NoMy pc is going crazy n freezing andhaving fits hahaha what to do dohbtw i hate hommer hehe anywaysi am not gonna fiddle about for hrswith the blog hmm whatever addmore soon ,time for coffee yahtc'z// posted by sweetspirit @ 1:05 AMWhat A Girl Wants ..Nah What Zis Girl WantzAll i wanted for xmas was a piture of you "sighz"but you left n never said goodbye hmm just likeBon Jovi sings never say goodbyeOh well what do i want seems like everyone is goingcrazy over Valentines Day ,well i could put a wish liston here hehe maybe they will come true haha.My wish ListCalvin Kleins Eternity snizzz hmmm niceCalvin Klei One snizzz hmmm niceoh but the guy in the add wooo can isee more of him hehe just joking.Whatz else do i want a picture of youHmm and i though i knew what i wantedOh well hmm still thinking// posted by sweetspirit @ 12:41 AMFriday, February 13, 2004Interesting site'sWell i was searching for e3 updates asa friend of mine always attends e3yeah lucky him always jetting outtaoz hehe.Guess this year is good for him asthe aussie dollar is at it's best ratein several years .You can read ithere I am sure many ppl hope it staysat that rate ,makes importing from the "USA"worth while .Although i must admit we mainlyimport games from Hong Kong ,why they workout much cheaper and are available muchearlier than in oz .Not to mention it takes at themost four days only to receive ,,kewl,, hey.Anyway this was a site i found interestingWell i betta gotc// posted by sweetspirit @ 4:15 PMFriday The 13thWell no one seems to be blogging aboutD day ,everyone is consumed with V daynot D day .Well i must say it's toneddown this year although black balloonswhere throughout the shopping center.Not to mention women dressed in blackwith witches hats on hehe,most guysprobably thinking women are witcheshehehe yeah of course we are lah.Anyways i guess it's been long time sinceFriday the 13th fell in febuary,but reallyi don't know and i don't care.Yes of course there are red balloonsevery where,and lots of teddieshug n mwa teddies hmm so cute.But i have my valentine teddyyeah n his cute n cuddly.Well it's too hot sitting heregonna go for a swim yay.Maybe i will make more senselata hehe.tc// posted by sweetspirit @ 1:53 AMThursday, February 12, 2004Dreams zzzzzz Too TiredWell yeah too tired to fix my blog, needzzzzz sleep badly arhhh zzzzzland wasgonna blog about dreams.Well maybe just a little blog about dreamsAs i stated i have many chat friends,somenever chat about dreams.One chat friendhe never really bothered chatting aboutthe meaning of dreams.Even when i toldhim i had a dream i was in his house.He was like mmm ,i told him in my dreamthere were archways in his house .Hereally wasn't interested "sigh".But what amazed me was when weused the webcam ,there they werearchways.I started chatting aboutthe dream i had about this butstill he didn't seem interested inmy dream.Oh well he had so manydreams to but ones he wantedto achieve personally, so afterthree years of chatting andkeeping in touch .We lost whatwe shared but memories lastforever,well until they fadelike faded dreams.Reminds me of a song titledlonely dancers yeah luv it.Anywayz one of my other chatfriends is right into dreamsand their meanings which iskewl ,cause we having beenhaving some in depthconversation's in regard todreams.But i can't blog abouthim as his a very private personand i think it's best i not blogabout his dreams.Then i do have another chat friendwho say's dreams are nothing,huhyeah thats his thought's oh welleveryone to their own.As for meI believe our dreams are telling ussomething,and we all know somecome true and others don't.Is it our Subconscious mindI like the above site as it lists numerous subjectsin relation to the human body ect and of coursethe sub conscious mind .I often thought that my dreams were in relationto my thought's from the day gone by,hmmmm.But then i would have dreams about things thati never thought about hmmm strange .Some books i read years ago ,stated to keepa diary of dreams .But you must write downyour dream as soon as you awaken from it.yeah like 4am haha ,that's hard work stillhalf asleep zzzz lahokies enough blah blah blahs from megotta go chat nightzzz and take care// posted by sweetspirit @ 11:31 PMStill ThinkingA close friend once told me,don't think toomuch hmmm okies i will take his advise.Firstly i have a habit of drifting from oneconversation to the next without finishingthe first ,oh well .I'm thinking must fix blog blah sighsBlog about dreams n reality huhBlog about Valentine's DaySeems most bloggers areblogging about Valentines daymwamwa mwa mwa mwahehe ,yeah mushy ushystuff ,but hey i so loveUsher's song "Help Me''Although i have the cut version yeah hereare the uncut lyricsHave no idea how correct they are asi haven't heard the uncut version.Anyways i gotta go will post again tonightb4 i go to zzzzland ,tc// posted by sweetspirit @ 3:52 PMBackHmmm thinking thinking thinking ,i so haveto fix this blog up.So much for lunch asusual i never meet ppl when i say i will.Well i do but i am always late or changeplans at last minute.So sorry Nick i domiss you heaps,don't worry i won'tspend my days n nights blogging.I know you think oh no she is gonnago back to blogging and forget every1in the real world .Believe me i knowi spent too much time doing thislast yr and i won't okies.Love U// posted by sweetspirit @ 3:45 PMWhispers i am so tired,been playing around on herefor over two hours.Guess i really need to fix upthings on this blog ,but hey its been awhile soi have to refresh my memory hehe.Anyways maybe tonight i will spend sometime fixing it up.As for now i am in demandhaha yeah gotta go out for lunch n shopn do lots of stuff back latatc// posted by sweetspirit @ 11:22 AMWednesday, February 11, 2004Well it's still 39 deg hmm just blogging cause i amsick of chatting.Wow in the past few months i have made over 600 chats friends ,yeah too many but of course i hadto block about 60 of em.Yeah ya get that ,its kinda like blogs ya never really know who the person is ya chatting with, or the person behindthe blog hmm could be anyone she could be a he or the other way round .But hey my advise don't take ppl too serious .As for me well, lots of chatters know me ,cause wevisit the same site's ect but i won't list them at this time.Anyway in future i shall blog about more interesting topichmmm ,although i could imagine the above blog could beinteresting.Maybe i will add a comment box yeah onedayWell gonna go 4 a swimtc// posted by sweetspirit @ 3:55 PMOh so long since i have been hereBut because it's 39 deg and i need to keep kewl i am sittinghere being lazy hehe,what a life can it get any better.Ofcourse it can ,that's what life is about living learning andnew experiences yeah whatever .I think the heat is getting to me haha gotta go for a swim ,blog lata whatever tc// posted by sweetspirit @ 2:44 PMThis page is powered by Blogger. Isn't yours?

Beauty Retreat
    my neighbourhood   Originally uploaded by sweetspirit. I should be so lucky ,okz this is my neighbourhood.The best thing about living here is it is so quiet except for the daycare centre ,which took a lot of getting use to.All those kiddies crying at 6am when their parents drop them off for the day.I am use to it now ,but one of the good things about living here is is the beauty retreat on the corner.My girls go there all the time,as for me well not often enough hehe.The bad thing about living here is it gets really spooky at night ,because i only have a few neighbours.Oh yeah i'm a scardy cat hehe.cheers

Brotherly love yeah
    Brotherly love yeah   Originally uploaded by sweetspirit. Nick was swamped by the boys, Nicky we miss you ,Nicky we love you.. Hugs hugs hugs

bus sign
    bus sign   Originally uploaded by sweetspirit. I'm just wondering  hmm how many places can one go ,without being under surveillance. I don't think it is a bad thing being filmed on a bad hair day hehe.I was just thinking all the times i leave home ,without my face hehe revlon and i'm being filmed hehe. Okz too many hehe, but if i woke every morning and i consciouslythought .Oh i am going to the bank "oh i will be filmed almost everywhere i go,shopping  service station, public transport buses the beach.Haha maybe i should think about putting my face on more often when i go shopping.Actually did you guys know that a gal actually caught her bf cheating on her via cam.Yes poor gal her bf was holidaying in Oz at was at Bondi beach .The gal decided to check the beach webcam ,and saw her bf on the beach smooching another gal.Tsk tsk

23 facts about me
1. My favourite colour is yellow
2. I live in Wales
3. I am 14 years old
4. My favourite shop is Primark 
5. I have a dog named Alfie 
6. I have an obsession for Disney films
7. My favourite food is pasta 
8. My favourite film is 50 First Dates
9. I love Jennifer Saunders
10. My favourite comedian is Lee Evans
11. My favourite subject in school is maths
12. I love watching YouTube videos 
13. My favourite makeup item is my concealer 
14. I hope one day to become a pastry chef
15. I love 80's music
16. I love to read
17. I enjoy making cakes
18. I watch Downton Abbey 
19. My favourite soap is Eastenders 
20. I always wear my hair in a ponytail 
21. My favourite TV show is Once Upon a Time
22. I am in year 9
23. I love using bath bombs
Hope you enjoyed reading about me and getting to know more about me.
Thanks
Ta -ta 
Abbie :) 





The is no love like the love of the Mother.

Orisha bi iya ooo,

Ko maa si ooo,

Ta nije, she omo olomo loore oo,

Bi ko she teni?






This used to be the best gadget for communication. Will you accept this as a birthday gift now?


What will be your reaction if your friend packaged this as a gift for you at your next birthday?Like  "Talk The Talk"




Daily Crime Reported As On 15/05/2013 At 17:00 Hrs





????? ??????

??????: ?????? 14/05/2013 ???? 16:00
?????? ????? ?????? ?????? ?????? ????????? ??????? ???? ????? ??? 19 ??? 8281
???? ??? ???? ?????? ????? ??????? ??????? ??????? ?????? ????? ?????? ?????
????????????? ??????? ????? ???? ?????? ?????? ????? ?????? ???? ????????
???????????? ??????? ??????, ??? ?????? ????? ??? ????? ?????, ???????? ????????????? ??? ???? ????????
????? ??????? ?????? ?????? ?????? ??????? ????????????????. ???????? ???????
?????????? ????? ???????? ?????? ????????? ????? ??????? 47/13 ??? 279, 337 ????????? ?????? ???????
????? ?????????????.




Asia Cup 2011 Part Two
Asia Cup is coming to an end soon. In the afternoon today, I went to catch Singapore vs Malaysia at the Sengkang stadium to watch their semis. I really love the crowd today, hahaha. But I know it's nothing compared to the Lion City Cup match (soccer). I heard that their crowd was CRAZY!Tomorrow, Singapore will be facing Pakistan for their last game. So, I'm pretty much very excited to see who will clinch the 3rd and 4th placing. As for me, even if the Singapore team fall for the 4th placing, they have been putting up a good fight against the opponent teams for all the matches and they have definitely put in a lot of effort. I'm really proud of them!Now, it's time for my self-shot photos. This was taken on Thursday before heading to the Singapore vs Chinese-Taipei match.Lastly, for you readers, if there's any questions that you want to ask me, feel free to ask me at the formspring box which can be found on the left hand side of the blog site! I'm willing to answer them (well, depends on the personal level) and also, don't be shy to follow me on Twitter! Hehe, have a good day ahead everyone!

Asia Cup 2011
I've been going down to Sengkang Stadium to watch the Asia Cup 2011 to support the Singapore Hockey team these two weeks. I went to watch Singapore vs Brunei game which was on the 18th of June and also, Singapore vs Pakistan which was held today.Singapore played really well against Pakistan even though they have lost the match. I'm still proud of them for putting in their best. Tomorrow Singapore will be fighting against Chinese-Taipei and I can't wait to watch!!

Be my baby
The strong bond between a father and a daughter. Lovely!

Blessed
 Even though O levels have yet to end, I will start blogging from today onwards. I'm left with Mother Tongue and Science MCQ paper and I'll be done, finally! I can't wait for the major examinations to end because I've got tons of plan to do after that! The first week on the last paper I am fully booked! Glad that I'm able to spend time with my love ones again.After my Social Studies paper, I met my bestfriend, Afeefa, to have a catch up session. I miss how close we were back then and I'm happy that things are going so, so well now. We decided to catch a midnight movie with our friends at Jurong Point. We watched 23:59 which I honestly think it's quite stupid. I don't think it's worth watching, at all. Sometimes I wonder why is it even shown on cinema. Nevertheless, I guess that was one of the best nights I had!Times like this, I wish I could do it everyday, again and again. With the company of my bestfriend, family and friends, my life seems to be very much completed, no doubt. This is what I've been yearning to do. Well, as some of you know I've been single for about 3 months already and I'm slowly getting the hang of it. In fact, I'm handling it much, much better than I thought I actually could. Thanks to the people around me that gave me great strengh, hope and love to carry on, I'm so thankful for that. Guess I don't regret after all.Anyway, feel free to follow me on Twitter (@asyihaxms) and INSTAGRAM (asyihaams) for instant update. If there's any question, do drop by on my Formspring. Thank you!

CELEBRITY FEATURE: Bae Suzy


Bae Suzy



Actually, I prefer IU (Lee Ji-Eun) more as my bias... but she [Suzy] really has a great impact to me. Despite the few bad comments that I read towards Suzy, I just can't help but to love her. I first got entranced by her beauty in her debut as a group member of Miss A. Then there goes Dream High! I watched it over for about 8 times now. I love how she portrayed her character despite the fact that it's her first time to act then. I know some people criticize her acting there but for me, it's all good!


SUZY AND MISS A.
Even with the rumored bullying-Suzy accusations against her fellow members, Min, Jia and Fei, I still want to continue to watch over them. I'm a guaranteed fan of them! I love Min's dancing, Jia's rapping and ofcourse Fei's almost-perfect talent and beauty. We can't pretend to not know that Suzy was the most popular among the four but I hope this wouldn't be the cause of conflict on their friendship. I appreciate JYP Ent.'s efforts in giving each member the opportunity to shine and I do recognize the three girls hard work just as much as Suzy. I really hope that their bond will be tighter and I pray for their continuous success! BTW, Miss A, congrats to the all-kill! BE STRONG GIRLS! Always remember that many people are supporting you! WE LOVE YOU! Say A~ 


WATCH ONLY YOU MV: 


https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=zO9RzrhYR-I&spfreload=10&hd=1 

(Download miss A the 7th project "Colors" on iTunes: 

https://itunes.apple.com/album/colors... 
miss A Official Facebook: http://www.facebook.com/saymissA 
miss A Official Twitter: http://www.twitter.com/jypemissA 
miss A Official Fan's: http://fans.jype.com 
miss A Official Homepage: http://missA.jype.com) 


SUZY AND LEE MIN HO. I didn't even dared imagining it..THEY'RE DATING! I never thought that they're close. So my reaction when I first read the news... I was like... "OMO. Really? What-the?! *&%^#!? I REALLY CAN'T BELIEVE IT!!!!" At first, I didn't know what to feel, both my Baes are in-love with each other! I felt happy and anxious and excited and a little sad at the same  time. But then the acceptance stage took place, I SUPPORT THEM! News emerged about why Suzy fell for him and LMH's great crush on her even before. My oh my... I love these two! I cross my fingers for the development of your relationship! LOVE LOVE LOVE! 


SUZY AND IU. Their friendship is... DAEBAK!!! haha. It started with the awkward early-morning birthday greeting of Suzy to IU as I recall from one of their interviews together, they're both casted to the Drama, Dream High then. Their developing friendship was one of the many reasons why I watch it. I love the way they joke around each other! They're both great entertainers that's why they're my fave. Too sad, I don't have any latest updates about their friendship. IU&Suzy FOREVER!!!

Initial Thoughts: Akatsuki no Yona [A]


Yona and other characters

AKATSUKI NO YONA

Recently, I've got the habit of skip-viewing anything that I watch (even with the dramas that I fondly love). But here I am now, continuously undisturbed by my indulgence with this anime for plenty of hours now. So for a short break, I decided to share my pre-review...

First of all, I want to compliment the great quality of graphics. I like how it was animated, I never had a glimpse to its manga but yea... I think the anime is great. The theme is awesome too, the mythical story really interests me. I love the story of the first king and his four loyal dragons. Their human form is really attractive and so is their characteristics. As much as I don't want to be spoiled about it, I got badly curious that I really googled some information. Hehe.

Although I know the plot and where will it go already, I still want to patiently watch it till the end. I want to enjoy the journey of the bishounens and the main character, Yona~Hime (I got a thing on red-haired protagonists, too, y'know...) Well... That's it for now!

Sooner or later, I'll finish watching this anime so watch out for my final review!!

Adhoori
Waqt kam tha baaten adhori rh gainache logon se mulaqatein adhori rh gainbaad mein barsa bohot meri ankhon ka panikon kehta hai k brsatein adhori rh gai,

poem
Meri Zindagi ki kitab Hai,Hai Warq Warq  Yun Saja Hua,,Sar-E-Ibtada   Sar-E-Inteha,Tera Naam Dil Pe Likha Huwa,,Ye Chamak Dhamak To Faraib Hai,Mujhe DekhGehri Nigah Sey..Hai LibasMera Saja Huwa, Mera Dil HaiLakin Bhujha Huwa..Meri AankhTeri Talash Mei, YunBhatkti Rehti Hai Raat Din..Jesy Janglon Mei Hiran Koi,Ho Shikariyon Mei Ghira Huwa...!!

Wo dost hamara kesa hi?
Ae moj-e-hawa ab to hi batawo dost hamara kesa haijo bhol gaya humko kabse wo jan se piara kesa haikia us k jewan lamhon mein koi lamha mera baqi hai.

Mohsin Naqvi
Mujh se milta tha to talqeen e wafa kerta tha.

Us k daaman mein koi phool nahi mere liay,

Jo meri tangi e daman ka gila kerta tha.

Aaj jo usko bulaya to wo gum sum hi raha,

Dil dharakne ki jo awaaz suna kerta tha,

Usko ehsas dilaya to wo milta hi nahi,

Ajnabi tha to roz mila kerta tha,

Uski dehleez pe sadyoun se khara houn mohsin,

Mujh se milne k jo lamhaat gina kerta tha,

Fr. Fernando Suarez Healing Prayer


Source:http://youtu.be/cK6QeNMUFxU
Subscribe to Biztalk and Jobs via Email
Become a fan Biztalk and Jobs in Facebook 
Follow me on Twitter
Blog Links:
Health and Wellness
The Leader
ACTRESS @ CELEBRITIES PHOTOS
Young and Adult Sexual Reprouctive Health
Organic Farming

Wedding Bloops
I just had to share this most recent post from my T.A.C.O.T. Blogspot. It's so absolutely true that people DO forget, and often leave booking their Minister to the last minute. Enjoy!For all you brides out there planning the BIG day.... REMEMBER TO BOOK THE MINISTER! At least make sure that whilst you're in negotiations with everyone else, that you stay in contact with your Minister in case you want to change the date.What a Nightmare. Everything in place, the flowers ordered, the venue booked, the guests invited, we thought we'd remembered everything. Oh boy, we forgot to book the Minister in advance. We really wanted Rev Brits to do our service, we stupidly assumed him to be available.At the end of the day, whilst we had a brilliant, brilliant Wedding Day, it had cost us a small fortune to change things because the Rev was so fully booked. Phone calls to guests & family in the UK, postage and a fee for incoveniencing the venue.So please.... learn from my drama, get the Minister in on the act right from the beginning.Thanks again Rev for being so understanding and accommodating. You're the best and we wouldn't have done it any other way. Much love Deborah & Shane.

Civil Unions
Weddings Without Boundaries!Talk to Rev Brits for all the clarification you need on Civil Unions in South Africa.

what is nesteg?
I have been asked, why Nesteg?Nesteg is an acronomy for NEW STRATEGIES. I came up with the name with a good freind of mine Gift. Back then we were selling pirated DVDs and yes we were burning them as well, I come to think of it we were using a pentium 3 20Gig computer. After it became apparent that we were not going anywhere with our new strategies we had to change gear, a man still has to eat hey. I moved to Knysna worked in restuarants and hotels( I hated it!). Started NESTEG CLEANING AND CONSTRUCTION SERVICES damn what a failure it become, the reason I can't tell but I had to move to Gauteng I simple couldn't afford not to. In Johannesburg I set up a website called www.nesteg.co.za to sell furniture online directly to the public but funds continue to hamstring me, but that's the way forward for the new strategies. I have a supplier am marketing for him, simple what nesteg do is to find buyers and customers( for kitchen and bedroom built-ins).
So ladies and gents, boys and girls the nesteg is here for you use it. Do you have a product you want people to know about get in contact with me am gonna sell it for you...0789779659. 
BUY FURNITURE NOW!!!!

what waiter zola and mr zondo think


A very funny joke
Two scientists walk into a scientist drink shop! One said, "Much H20, please." The other said, "I'll also have H20, too." He died died died horribly.

It is because he said, "H20, too", which sounds like 'H202' which is a dangerous compound!




Click Me!




Did you know ... 
That there is a replica of the ancient Pong game (no, it does not stink) at www.ponggame.org?

FYI, the Pong game was the first ever 'computer game'. More info on the website.

I will be posting more Did you know things if this is successful.

Even More Jokes
Q: What did the sea say to the sand
A:Nothing it just WAVEd

A red house is made out of red bricks, A blue house is made out of blue bricks, a yellow house is made out of yellow bricks, a pink house is made out of pink bricks, what is the green house made of?

Ans: Glass because it is a green house(The one where you grow crops).

Q: Why cant you give a balloon to Elsa?
A: She will "Let it Go"



Final Joke for now
A Sumerian person tried to write a story about a hero and was unsuccessful. It was an EPIC FAIL!

Google Maps TARDIS
https://www.google.com/maps/place//@51.492137,-0.192878,3a,79y,299.7h,78.75t/data=!3m5!1e1!3m3!1sc9UMhWP_MWm9U0L48xEjYw!2e0!3e5!4m2!3m1!1s0x0:0xad8352768ee1781a!6m1!1e1?hl=en

https://www.google.com/maps/@51.492145,-0.192978,3a,75y,299.36h,63.5t/data=!3m5!1e1!3m3!1s9SNlG6n9D5kAAAQIt-IsBw!2e0!3e2!6m1!1e1?hl=en



Langverwag fees 













As jy dalk nie van 'n foto hou nie, laat weet asseblief en dan haal ons dit af. Om dit te doen, gaan hierheen.













































A few from 2009


A few things from last year sometime


Work from my solo show 2008
Here's some of my work from my solo show called 'I'M (NOT) DOING REALLY WELL' which was held in Monster Truck Gallery in 2008

It's all new
Before it reaches the New Year, my New Year resolution is going to be... post more stuff, I promise. I'm currently trying to teach myself photoshop (I never bothered to learn it back in my college days, I was too busy being a bold boy) so I've rejiggled the look of the blog since I started it wayyy back in January.I still haven't posted anything up from The Temple show during the summer, so that's next on the list... right after I give you these pen and watercolour drawing combos created in front of the fire watching Commando

More 2009
A couple more favourites from 2009, both sold. Biro pen drawings pasted onto canvas.

Hidden Treasures
Well I too have joined but presently my blocks are what the title reads Hidden Treasures. When I get around to opening all my boxes of craft stuff hopefully I will find them. I will then get a piccie of them all together. Mind you I only have two.Jenny

My old and new Kitchen
Hi, Just thought I would post a couple of before and after pics of my kitchen. I am really pleased with the end result. The bathroom is being done this coming Tuesday so will have a pic of that soon as well. The dates on these pics are not quite right ~ one day I will fix the date up on my camera......one day, one day, one day.Jenny

Outside of  House so far.
This is the house before we started ~ minus the fence, we had to put that up.This is after we had the old windows pulled out and the new ones put in.And this one is after the cladding was put on. We still have to have the eaves, facia board and gutters painted. The steps have to painted or whatever as well.We are quite pleased with how things are going so far. We have been extremely lucky with all the tradesmen/workers we have had, they have done excellent work.

The Bathroom
This is the bathroom before we pulled it apart.This is what we have now.    It is all looking good. Painting is finished ~ just a few touch ups here and there.   Jenny

Do we need a new shed?
We are undecided about this shed. It's 'should we get a new one or not'. Well why not have a new one, we decided ~ it will be sad to see the old one go though. Some things are so difficult to part with.

When?
We are getting married on the 20th August 2012.

The church
The wedding will take place in Newman's University Church, St Stephen's Green, Dublin.

Comments
Leave your comments and greetings here.

The venue



After the religious ceremony a celebration will take place in Leixlip Manor, St Catherine's Park, Leixlip, Co. Kildare.

Directions here.

Wedding list
For friends and relatives who would like to buy a gift, we have set up a wedding list with Arnotts department store.
If you need help, just let us know.

Welcome
Welcome to Mullen Images. You will find my blog over at nicoleqmullen.wordpress.com

A/N

"To all otakus of the world my following posts would be mostly about anime so I hope you would be happy about it :)"







-MJU






"SPIRITED AWAY"








A very heart-warming story, I tell you. The first time I watched this movie was during 6th grade. I saw it in a television commercial. At first I thought it was horrible because the way how the creator drew were creepy. I was shocked because my sister kept on screaming when she saw it and she said that this movie was really awsome so I watched it the following day. Its about Chihiro and Kuhaku; as you see from the names, its Japanese.

If you watched the movie then cool, if you haven't then here is what I am going to tell you, "WATCH IT BECAUSE IF YOU WON'T YOU'LL MISS SOMETHING PART OF YOUR LIFE O-O"







-MJU

(strike that!!!! got it right now!)




A Pic Collage by Heather



Created using Pic Collage. http://pic-collage.com







Sent from my iPad


A poem by Holly




A poem by Richard




A word collage by Huia




Aimee's amazing monster




colours





Rules on Notarial Practice
Here is the link to AM No 02-8-13-SC Rules on Notarial Practice of 2004.



Michael Miller Eiffel Tower prints 

ORDERED!!

I am sooo excited about the Michael Miller order, I'm also a little worried I may have to cut into them all, before they make it into the shop :)

Good job I ordered lots!

Ooooh and some Riley Blake cotton flannels, for those pjs, it could get chilly camping!


Beautiful Skies and Landscapes from artist Jim Cobban
Canvas Gallery is happy to have received some gorgeous new oil landscapes from painter Jim Cobban.

Born and currently residing in Canada, Jim has travelled the world extensively to developing countries, eventually ending up in the fabled artists colony of San Miguel in Mexico where he began painting in oil. Since then he has been developing and continually refining his technique, experimenting with the many capacities of oil paint to reflect the qualities of sensual experience.

To achieve depth and luminosity in his works he builds and deepens his image by applying several layers, or glazes, of paint one over the other until a rich and intensely luminous, seemingly inner-lit image emerges.

"Sanctum", oil on canvas, 30" x 40", $1800
"Gulls Over Lake Huron", oil on canvas, 12" x 24", $440
"Synergy", oil on canvas, 28" x 36", $1500
"Summer Trees", oil on canvas' 16" x 20", $480

For more of the latest works by Jim Cobban as well as other artists, please visit www.canvasgallery.ca.

New Blog

This is my new blog!




Romero Britto Cat Art


Our inquiry topic for this term is Art Attack. We are learning about lots of different artists. I painted a cat by an artist called Romero Britto.




HAPPY PARENTS CELEBRATING IS THE SPIRIT IN WINNERS


HAPPY PARENTS CELEBRATING THE WINNINGS


HAPPY SMILING FUN FILLED PARENTS


TEACHERS INTERACTING WITH STUDENTS AFTER WINNING


Investmen Brokers june-12
BLK  176.56  6.04  3.31%  MS  29.70  0.21  0.71% CME  340.93  1.16  0.34%  SCHW  18.08  0.32  1.80%  TROW  43.16  0.23  0.53%   AMTD  17.54  0.42  2.34%  ICE  116.10  0.51  0.44%  NYX  29.81  0.21  0.70%   NDAQ  21.75  0.25  1.14%  JEF  22.23  0.69  3.20%  SEIC  18.50  0.16  0.87%   CS  46.59  0.40  0.85% 75 WDR  27.03  0.27  0.99%  IDC  23.72  0.17  0.72%   RJF  17.75  0.07  0.40%    NITE  17.37  0.09  0.52%    SF  45.88  1.68  3.80% EEFT  19.44  0.08  0.41%    OXPS  16.67  0.10  0.60%    COWN  8.52  0.63  7.98% PJC  39.88  0.27  0.68%   MSZ  19.61  0.03  0.15%   MF  6.25  0.29  4.87% IBKR  14.77  0.07  0.48%   MSJ  19.70  0.12  0.61%  MSK  18.99  0.01  0.05%   MWG  18.59  0.04  0.21%  MWO  17.60  0.02  0.11%

Stock Market Qoutes January-12 2009
C Citigroup, Inc 6.00 -0.75 -11.11% 123,147,812 XLF Select Sector SPDR: Financial Select Sector SPDR Fund 11.18 -0.38 -3.29% 57,468,677 EYE Advanced Medical Optics Inc 21.60 12.75 144.07% 51,226,189 SAY Satyam Computer Services Ltd 1.20 -8.15 -87.17% 49,832,884 BAC Bank Of America Corporation 12.00 -0.99 -7.62% 43,654,599 UYG ProShares Ultra Financials 4.83 -0.36 -6.93% 31,381,984 JPM JPMorgan Chase & Co 25.13 -0.84 -3.23% 24,130,111 GE General Electric Company 15.94 -0.06 -0.38% 24,101,395 SSO ProShares Ultra S&P500; 24.80 -0.87 -3.39% 23,733,064 EEM iShares:MSCI Emerg Mkt 24.00 -0.88 -3.54% 23,373,144 12:10 PM ET 1/12/09 http://www.investorguide.com/markets.cgi 

Stock Qoutes June-15-09
 JAZZ Jazz Pharmaceuticals Inc 5,160 4.11 +1.47 +55.68% AIM Aerosonic Corp 124 5.00 +1.75 +53.85% AEZS AEterna Zentaris Inc 438 2.40 +0.60 +33.33%  FFDF FFD Financial Corp 13 13.50 +3.14 +30.31% CAV Cavalier Homes Inc 409 2.69 +0.46 +20.63%  TXICU Tongxin International Units 12 6.00 +0.99 +19.76%  MAPP MAP Pharmaceuticals Inc 335 12.14 +2.05 +20.32% BDSI BioDelivery Sciences  Inc 1,296 7.52 +0.76 +11.24% GLUU Glu Mobile Inc 241 1.43 +0.22 +17.70% CREL Corel Corp 13 3.28 +0.22 +7.19% http://moneycentral.msn.com/investor/market/gainers.aspx

Stock Quotes June-04-09
ADCT 7.77 4.86% AKS 16.49 10.15% ANF 27.95 -11.83% AXL 2.56 11.30% C 3.57 5.31% CONN 13.22 24.95% COWN 6.59 36.16%

Sock Qoutes July-31-09 12pm EST
QuoteWeb .Name Last Trade  Change BX - NYQ $11.4101   -0.0099 0.09% BLACKSTONE GRP LP UT MS - NYQ $28.52   0.16 0.56% MORGAN STANLEY YHOO - NMS $14.558   -0.042 0.29% Yahoo! Inc. MSFT - NMS $23.83   0.02 0.08% Microsoft Corporation DIS - NYQ $25.34   -0.88 3.36% WALT DISNEY-DISNEY C AIG - NYQ $13.09   -0.04 0.3% AMER INTL GROUP NEW BAC - NYQ $14.37   0.40 2.86% BK OF AMERICA CP http://www.thedeal.com/dealscape/2009/07/yhoo_msft_bx_ms_dis_bac.php

Luang Phor Thuad from Wat Bang Non, Luang Phor Duan year 2535 (Sold)


Balakit Chang Mon(curved head style) consecrated by PraKru Samlit Wat U Thong


Balakit Yai by Pra Kru Samlit Wat U-Thong

Artwork by Chang Mon

Chao Khun Nor, Wat Thepsirin Pim Song Nam Long Rak Pid Thong, 2513






In stainless steel casing, awarded twice 1st placing in Thailand's amulet competition.



Kept in unworn condition with stainless steel case.



S$460


40 Years Later, Detroit Slowly Sees Renewal
40 Years Later, Detroit Slowly Sees RenewalNPR audio:Residue from the 1967 riots can still be seen throughout Detroit. Although some economic development has taken place, abandoned buildings and other signs of urban blight remain evident combined with a population that continues to decline. But newspaper columnist Rochelle Riley says a new Detroit is slowly emerging.

9/11 Workers Not Getting Enough Care, Report Says
9/11 Workers Not Getting Enough Care, Report SaysThe report said that federal workers and responders who came to ground zero from other parts of the country do not have access to suitable health programs.

Absolutely, positively a global economy
Absolutely, positively a global economyAPM audio:Globalization has played a large part in the strong growth of United Parcel Service. Kai Ryssdal talks with CEO Michael Eskew about how the business has changed, and how in many ways it will always stay the same.

AFL-CIO site has info on legal protections
AFL-CIO site has info on legal protectionsWorking America, the community affiliate of the AFL-CIO, has launched a free online service for anyone who wants more information on legal rights and protections on the job. ''Ask a Lawyer'' at www.workingamerica.org/askalawyer was created to help workers understand their rights and determine whether the boss can do that -- or not.

Air controllers argue over maintenance (AP)
Air controllers argue over maintenance (AP)AP - Air traffic controllers say poor maintenance of their aging work places has hampered and harmed them and could endanger the flying public.

Second Vermicomposting Project
?????Starting my expansion of my compost worm colony. From single-storey worm apartment to a condo-style home for them. My previous bin has been colonised by ants and the worms doesn't seem to have reproduced much so probably a new home without ants is better off for them. ?Let's keep my fingers crossed and hope to see my compost worm colony doubling in 2 months time if everything goes well.The wormies' old apartment? Their new upgraded condo (Got the trays from TOYOGO @ $7.50 each) ??????

2014 Mahindra Bolero Price

<!--
google_ad_client = "ca-pub-2782336357453463";
/* 336x280, created 11/10/11 */
google_ad_slot = "1509433683";
google_ad_width = 336;
google_ad_height = 280;
//
-->




Starts at Rs. 5,68,418 - Rs. 7,30,094


2014 Mahindra Bolero 

2014 Mahindra Bolero comes in following 6 versions with 1 engine and 1 transmission options. Click on a Bolero version name to know on-road price in your city, specifications and features.


2014 Mahindra E20 Price, Review, Specifications

<!--
google_ad_client = "ca-pub-2782336357453463";
/* 336x280, created 11/10/11 */
google_ad_slot = "1509433683";
google_ad_width = 336;
google_ad_height = 280;
//-->






2014 Reva E2O Engine and Performance


The engine and performance of the new 2014 Mahindra Reva E2O is just perfect. The car is expected to be rolled out by the end of this year in the Indian car market. 2014 Mahindra Reva NXR would be rolled out in three variants. The base one would come with small batteries, while the top variant would be blessed with big batteries with long running charge. The mid variant of Mahindra Reva E2O would be the best one as it will feature medium sized batteries. It is expected that the next generation Reva E2O 48v lithium ion battery powered electric motor that would give out peak power of 39.4BHP along  with a decent torque. The battery would take around 8 hours to full charge and then provide you with a 160km of continuous run up  . The REVive technology in the Reva NXR facilitates the user to use up the reserve charge when you are out of battery charge. With a top speed of 100kmph , the performance of Reva E2O on road is expected to be top class. But, the car will have to face a tough fight from Nissan Leaf, which also an electric car. What is more interesting with this electric car is that it has met all the global requirements and has been tested in all extreme conditions. The car makes sure that the car gives out great power, efficient and good energy. You could zoom away the 2014 Mahindra Reva E2O even in the -9 degree Celsius of temperature to more than 45 degree Celsius of temperature in Delhi. The monsoon season will also not stop the new Mahindra Reva E2O from providing you a wonderful driving experience.


Braking & Handling

The brand new 2014 Mahindra Reva E2O is expected to be launched in the Indian car market by the end of this year. The car will be bestowed with responsive and strong front disc brakes and the rear has drum brakes to ensure a safe drive for the passengers . The strong steel frames of the body offer more protection in case of an accident or collision. The efficient Xenon headlamps are also present to make you night drive perfect and not problematic. Its smooth and easy handling would certainly impressive you to the core. 



Handling & Safety

The handling and safety of the new 2014 Mahindra  Reva E2O is expected to be top class . The electric car with lithium ion batteries promises a 160km of continuous run with a single full charge. The handling of the car is smooth and easy, while the safety of the passengers has been kept in mind while manufacturing this next generation Reva NXR. The car would come blessed with parking sensors on the front as well as at the rear. The sensors will be effective during reverse, street parking, garage parking, parallel parking and peaking in tight spot . Furthermore, to enhance the safety of the car, Mahindra and Mahindra has provided Reva NXR with fog lamps. Also the airbags would safeguard the driver and front passenger .



Stereo & Accessories in Reva E2O

2014 Mahindra Reva E2O will come with a good integrated CD player that would turn you ride into a joyful one. The speakers are evenly placed in the interiors to give a good sound in every corner of the car. The electronic infotainment, tachometer, speedometer, durable squads and odometer are some of the accessories that would make Reva E2O a perfect car for all. You can also expect Mahindra Reva E2O to come with Normal and fast charge options,ReGen braking system, optional solar roof panel and superb energy management system  .



Make Your Own Graphics Free





Designing graphics that rock is time-consuming 
even if you have the talent, and let's face it, 
most of us don't. 


And today, if your site doesn't have laser-sharp 
bold graphics, it's not going to get your 
prospects' attention.

Instant Banner Creator just cured all your 
graphics headaches.


Creating these graphics can't be made any easier. 
You point... you click... you are done! You don't 
have to know Photoshop, Flash, or anything more 
complicated than operating a web browser to design 
high-performing banners, buttons, headers etc.

And here's the kicker...

Instant Banner Creator is free to join, and
they even host you images for you. Be sure to
grab your free membership today!

This isn't a decision you should think about. 
You get everything, for nothing! Where else in life 
do you get a proposition like that? The only way 
to lose is to not join. By joining, you set course 
for a new, easier life with absolutely zero risk.



Tools for Making Websites


By now I'm sure you've heard some great things aboutTim Brechill's new viral marketing affiliate software,skaDoogle.
But if not, I wanted to fill you in on what all the greattalk is about, and tell you briefly about some of thenew features that Tim's added to the latest updateto skaDoogle.As if the software wasn't already extremely powerful, Timjust keeps adding more and more requested features toit. Anyway, here is a brief list of what the softwarecan do for you:- Turns dead static content into dynamic, rich webpageswith links to top selling products from highly-targetedkeywords of your choice- Keep your webpages fresh with unique content byinserting several rotating Ad feeds to ensure that allwebpages are unique and highly related to the topic- Exponentially increase your profits by giving away thesoftware with YOUR affiliate links branded into it.The viral potential of this program is endless...AND 3-tiers deep!- Earn quick money by automatically publishing skaDoogleAds and Link Sense technology on your site- Create a long-lasting passive income with literallyan infinite potential, with YOUR affiliate links embeddedin THOUSANDS of your affiliates' pages across the Internet.Plus way more than I can list here...Oh yeah... and the best part about this software - it'sFree... at least for now anyway.Tim's got several demos at the website to show youexactly what the software can do for you, so I highlysuggest that you take a few minutes from whateveryou're doing right now, and go check 'em out.I can't understand how this will be free for muchlonger. So if I were you, I'd at least go see whatit's all about now.

Balcony

2,4 m x 4,4 m

10,5 sq meters










Bathroom 2014
mostly from Florida newest oceanfront highrisers


























Bedroom floors
Before


























During





































Chairs for the balcony
Planning to pick up today four Ballard designs off white wicker dining chairs



I like the quality, color, shape, and price, but afraid they are a little bit too bulky for our balcony, we really want to fit a couch there too. Now I need to find a small 32" table
















Calendula Petal Soap






This all natural soap is amazingly moisturizing. Made with fresh calendula oil, and topped with beautiful calendula petals. The calendula is soothing for your skin, and with no added fragrance, this soap is perfect for those with the most sensitive skin.

Ingredients: Olive oil, Canola oil (infused with Calenula Petals), Coconut oil, Castor Oil, Lye, Calendula petals, Mica

Cappuccino Soap









This soap has a great coffee scent, perfect for cappuccino and coffee lovers like me :) Made with ground espresso beans (the brown bits in the soap and on top) and coffee oil for a strong , long lasting natural scent.

100% vegetable soap.

Ingredients: Coconut Oil, Coconut Milk, Lye (sodium hydroxide), Coffee Oil, Ground Espresso Beans, Fragrance Oil, Brown Oxide, Cappuccino Mica 

Coconut & Calenudula Soap


Another soap loaded with Calenudula petals. 
Fragrance free, and made with only vegetable oils (perfect for smelly girl & boy animal lovers).

Ingredients: Coconut Oil, Coconut Milk, Lye, Calendula Petals, Mica

Each bar weighs aprox. 150 grams / 5.2 ounces 


A HUGE PYTHON KILLED AT OPEBI IKEJA (PHOTOS)
A Snake as huge as my hea








d and body is seen around opebi, ikeja when it is not ikorodu or Badagry that,s scary. The python was killed by two men in a bush around the area, to drag and when they brought it out, people gathered to take a look. Is So SCARY.

Average Wealthy American Adopter




me, shades of grey
blog moved to http://raindance66.blogspot.com

The full cast and crew
We're delighted to announce our full team for the show. Music rehearsals are underway during February, and we commence normal rehearsals in early March.

Crew:
Director: Cassie Tillett
Musical director: Selwyn Tillett
Stage Manager: Jonathan Redding
Wardrobe: Anne Giles
Tech: Baz, Alex Hobbs, Dean Weston, Malcolm Robinson
Set design: Angela Rowe
Choreography: Ruth Bennett

Cast:
Angela Rowe
Gill Tichborne
Ruth Bennett
Dawn Brindle
Fiona McPherson
Scott Brown
Rob Tiffen
Huw Jones
Selwyn Tillett

The fun starts here!


I feel so out of my comfort zone here. I'm all about Whatsapp, Twitter, IG and Te

Reflection on Dogs as Therapy


I have just discovered the amazing, inspiring teacher's blog by Kate Baker in New Jersey.

This particular post - screen shot above - certainly sets the thoughts flying.

Would it be possible to use dogs as therapy in schools?
- for students with all manner of social difficulties
- for students in personal crisis
- for teachers needing a touching moment and and a "slow down" from insanity.

REFLECTION
I see so many advantages in using dogs as therapy in schools - easing troubled spirits and connecting where no words can really go.
But on the practical side, should there be one or more dogs?
Teacher owner dogs?
What if - dog turns for some reason. School liable?
Is the risk minimal?
The advantages of a dog's presence far outweigh any disadvantages?

I remember many many years ago, my sport teacher brought Banjo the corgi to school.
The main reason Banjo was there was because he loathed being home alone 5 days a week.
So when the sport teacher had all day sport lessons - often twice a week - Banjo was out there offering support.
He loved basketball, and soon learnt to be a team player.
He loved encouraging the runners- cheerfully bolting along beside them.
Students loved to try to beat Banjo.
Even the non sporty students enjoyed getting out there and playing when Banjo was around.
And Banjo was one happy guy!



To teach is to keep learning


Reflection on Edmodo - Update


Screen shot of my current Edmodo profile page.
More to complete, but it's happening.

I mentioned in my first post HERE that part of my professional learning journey was to check out whether Edmodo could solve some problems with my Year 10 English class.
Now I have explored further, marking written work on line at Edmodo seems far more user friendly than the Word document option available on Moodle.
I have emailed all students in the class, asking them to sign up in one of two groups - Year 10 English - Outdoor Education - and just Year 10 English.
Then any extra class information for the Outdoor Ed students can be added.
I am trialling all this for their current Night assignment.
(So far just one student said she will sign up. Others still prefer to upload their assessment as an attachment on gmail.)
Even if just a few do so initially, that will be OK!
Then I am not wasting too much time if this idea does not work as well as I would like.

So enjoy exploring new teaching concepts, but only value them when I can see they have a valuable purpose in my own teaching context.


To teach is to keep learning



My Suzuki 125 motor bike

Camp 2015


Discussion task


doing boring old prep


E


alberta, writing
a new blog, anticipating my time at the University of Alberta this fall, as writer in residence, & an extension of such, as well; today I found out Vancouver poet Marita Dachsel [see my review of her first book here] will be there, as her husband is playwrite-in-residence at UofA the same time I'm there; a new blog to talk about writing, events, & whatever else happens during that time I'm in town. Until then, read the piece "On (Not) Being an Alberta Writer: or, anticipating UofA" from The Danforth Review...& I arrive at the beginning of September, if anyone asks. a bit premature, perhaps, but better early than late?if you have questions, comments, send me a note at az421@freenet.carleton.ca

Seal Village Fete Sept 10 2011
Some pictures of Seal Fete and Dog Show in September. Many thanks to Royal 
London Society for the Blind who took these pictures and passed them on to us.























Delicious food from Tandoori nights







Seal School provided a barbeque...




and it was much enjoyed.




Dogs in all shapes and sizes strutted their stuff...






A treasure trove of a stall 












Many thanks to our local PCSOs for organising the dog show, and to Kerry's pet shop for providing prizes.







Ok, so all the rosettes said "Seal FATE" instead of "FETE" !
We used them anyway, figuring that the dogs couldn't read...




Seal's intrepid village belly-dancing troupe!




We couldn't hold the rain off forever. Revd Anne Le Bas, the parish priest, sharing an umbrella with Kim Silver, chair of Seal School governors.







Planning meeting notes Nov 10
The notes from the Know Your Neighbours planning meeting last night (Thursday 10th Nov) can be found by clicking on the link in the right hand sidebar, under the "Pages" heading.


Planning for the Christmas Village event on Friday Dec 2 is well underway, starting with Seal School Christmas fair from 3.30pm, followed by a procession up to the Five Bells pub at about 5.30 and carol singing there. We will then go onto the church at about 6pm for a couple more carols, and there will be stalls, activities, a BBQ and bar, and a special, red-coated visitor in the tower... We will pack up at 9 pm, so that those coming home from work can join us.

If you can give this any publicity, there is a poster available to download here.

olympic flame tv clip
And here is the Meridian report on the olympic flame 


http://www.itv.com/meridian-east/follow-the-flame27674/

There's a little snippet featuring Seal school about 1 minute 45 seconds in! 

Olympic Torch
Did you know.... The Olympic torch will be coming through Seal on Friday 20th July...
I'm sure we will mark this somehow!


Punta Cana Prelude
I write this on the Saturday of Thanksgiving weekend. I'm listening to Christmas music and systematically loading music on my new iPod, enjoying the late fall sunshine lighting the dining room. In a few minutes, we'll head out into unseasonably warm 51-degree weather to run holiday errands. This time next month, we'll be preparing for our trip to Laura and Harry's wedding in Punta Cana . This will be our first stay at an all-inclusive resort, Dreams Palm Beach.

Affordable Antiques at Patrick Howard
Please Check Out the Affordable Range atPatrick Howard Premier Antique Dealers responding to Changing Times

The Antique Timeline
Click the Pictureto Visit the Timelineinformation on AntiquePeriods

Bespoke Furniture Available
  OK .... I Know !!There are No Antique TV Cabinets.The Premier Antique Dealers in Respones toour Clients Requests have in conjunction withIreland's Master Craftsmen can Custom makea piece in Antique Mahogany of any Dimensionand style for The Flat ScreenTV which will also hide the ugly DVD's etcCLICK PICTURE TO VIEW

Video - Sample of my Style
WWW.FENNELLY.NET

A Surprise
Surprise from some of my closest friends. They are the guys that are older yet close with me. They will be there to crack jokes, laugh and smile. When you are sad, i can be certain that they'll be there for you. The never broken bonds between these brothers are awesome ^^ 
Though I didnt know them for very long, but it's very magical that human relationship, emotional bonds and whatever in-between is so cool and unimaginable that brings us all tgt.
Really thank them for coming all the way down to cheer me on for my exams that will be coming in 2 days time!!!! Oh my!
Hope that with all the luck and wishes,I'm able to do well. 
Nights ~
~RAY


Stuck in between...
It's hard to see two ppl who misses each other but yet are separated...
Both actually wishes and misses each other hugs.
Both are nice people that are kind and thoughtful....
Knowing both side is hard... hard to help, hard to keep it within me when I know the truth between them...


Thinking a lot....
Sometime the friends around me are my best buddies. They are the ones that bring me up and lift my mood.However they still do have their down side...Seeing them feel sad and suffer makes me feel sad too. Really hope for their best. ^^

Hexafish Bracelet






This awesome bracelet is not super easy. It takes more than an hour (sometimes two)! And you'll need more than a 100 rubber bands.



Here's how you do it.







You can always add a charm :)



Have fun xxx




Illusion Bracelet




This bracelet is sort of difficult but it looks really cool.





Inverted Fishtail Bracelet





This bracelet is so cool, easy and so cute!








BUCKY'S FIRST HOUSTON PUPPY RAISERS MEETING: Sunday October 20th, 2013

BUCKY'S FIRST HOUSTON PUPPY RAISERS MEETING: Sunday October 20th, 2013

I am so proud of little Bucky. At his first meeting, with about 12 other Guide Dog puppies of various ages, Bucky, was pretty much a perfect angel. During the meeting he sat quietly sleeping.




Then we went outside and tried Relaxation Protocol.....












I by no means delude myself to think that Bucky will continue to be a perfect puppy!





HE MAY BE CUTE.....

He may be cute, but he does have some disgusting habits - currently it is WORM EATING! Bbbbbllllgggghhhh!











(Just to clarify, I was referring to BUCKY!)

Over the weekend, John came home shaking his head, sighs, removes his bifocals, and says "I never thought I'd be shopping at Baby's R US, for a baby gate, at this age." And to make matters worse, we weren't happy with the first choice, so he had to make TWO trips to Baby's R US and get another one.

The joys of having a puppy in the house.
















ID Tag

Bucky and I have an ID Tag..... We can go ANYWHERE - stores, malls, food courts, grocery stores, restaurants, meat counters, theatres.... So proud.....









PICKING UP BUCKY IN FLORIDA: Wednesday October 9th, 2013


We arrived at SEGDI (Southeastern Guide Dogs) after driving 17 hours from Houston to Palmetto (just south of Tampa, Florida.) The campus is pretty impressive at 25 acres., with an expansion coming.

http://www.guidedogs.org/








Puppy Hugging

We had a campus tour, including the whelping/breeding/puppy kennels - for the ever popular Puppy Hugging. Three little tiny golden retriever puppies came out and scampered across everyone's hearts.



John in his glory Puppy Hugging

We identified ourselves as Puppy Raisers coming in to pick up our puppy (with big goofy proud grins on our face) and received so much praise and recognition that both John and I choked up. (YES, I did see John with a little moisture in his eyes! CRIKEY!)

We also stopped at the IFT (In For Training) building to see some of the dogs that have returned to College to pursue and perfect their Guide Dog skills. Much to my surprise it was really noisy and sounded like an unruly Frat House! I am sure their Puppy Raisers would be appalled. They told us they had 107 dogs IFT - and 28 more were coming the next day, and 11 were going out. Some were two to a kennel, and some were dorms with 7 to a kennel. YIKES! That's a lot of dogs!

After signing papers pledging to do all sorts of things, ESPECIALLY and MOST importantly, to return the dog when requested in one year, we got to meet BUCKY!



John and Bucky meet

Bucky bounded out and jumped into John's lap. John was thrilled and grinned from ear to ear. He sure did squirm and squiggle his skinny little body a lot (BUCKY - NOT John!) After John stopped squealing I got down and Bucky leaped into my lap for our introductions.

That night we drove to Marianna, Florida. The first hotel we stopped at had a sign saying "No Pets - Service Dogs Allowed". (NOTE: BIG grin on my face!!!) Little Bucky did us proud - riding the elevator, sleeping through the night and not making any messes. At breakfast he sat quietly at our table and was the perfect Guide Dog puppy. (NOTE: big proud goofy grin on my face!)

We arrived at Bucky's new home the next day - a total of about 17 hours after he left Florida. Little Bucky was a trooper and just sat in my lap so quiet the whole time.

Bucky is a good puppy.






We're getting a Guide Dog puppy!!!!!

SEPTEMBER 25th we found out we are getting a puppy - and the one we will get. 




The golden retriever on the right is our new puppy!!!!







This is the email I sent to friends on Sept 25th, 2013:

-------------------------------------

Just found out today we are getting a male golden retriever....

We pick him up October 9th.

I am so excited - I almost pee'd my pants....

I am definitely doing The Dolphin Dance (the dance I did whenever I saw dolphins on the Swan River by our house in Perth, Australia - probably more accurately described as a flailing of arms, legs, body parts, jumping up and down, squealing, etc..... Not pretty and very embarrassing.....)

I am so excited I could cry......

---------------------------------------

FEELING: Excited but nervous..... 





Evan Almighty
We've watched the premier night of Evan Almighty last monday..I find the movie good though it's not as funny as i expected it to be. I specifically like the last part where Evan was talking to God. God talked about the ARK (an Act of Random Kindness at a time)...that's how you change the world according to the movie...do an ARK...if only people will find it easy to do an ARK..I rated it 4 stars because i like the A.R.K. part and environmental issues the movie imparted.Genre: ComedyCasts: Steve Carell, Morgan Freeman

Cutest Story from a two year old boy
It is my tradition to tell stories to my children before we go to sleep. These are stories I made up to teach them lessons in life. I often use animals as the main character. I already have Lizzie the Lazy Lizard, The Mouse etc. Last night, my two-year old son, Juan, butt in while I was telling them a story... Juan: I have a story. Me: Ok. What story do you have? Juan: About a snake. Me: Ok, tell us about your story. Juan: One day there was a snake...(he paused)...The End...By Juan... We had the biggest laugh that night. Certainly, kids are so amazing! 

DIRTY TALK
My twin kids, Julia nad Rafael are in Kinder School. One day Rafael was so happy to announce that he already have a crush. This conversation with my son Rafael happened a few months ago...Rafael : You know Mommy my crush in kinder 1 is Sarah.Me: Oh, and why do you like her?Rafael: Because me and Sarah, we talk about dirty things.Me: (Gasps in horror! But I managed to ask my son... Ok what dirty things do you talk about?Rafael: Sarah told me that her baby brother likes swimming in a dirty water. And I told her that when I was a baby I poopoo in our car and in our bed, and our floor, that's why our things got dirty.

E.T. Movie
We've recently let our kids watch E.T. on DVD. I like this movie because even before when movie-making is not that 'hi-tech' the director made E.T. look so real. I like the kind of friendship the movie imparts and the simplicity of what happiness means to a child. I just don't like it when E.T. has to go because it never fails to make me cry. And so did our daughter, Julia. After the movie she cried for an hour! Memories of my own childhood came back...I cried uncontrollably too! I was worried that E.T. and her friends will never see each other again.Drew Barrymore is so cute in this movie. It's nice seeing Drew as a very young girl, from there you instantly knew she'll be a big star when she grows up.Directed by Steven SpielbergCasts: Drew Barrymore, Henry Thomas, Peter Coyote, Dee Wallace, Robert MacNaughton, K.C. Martel, Sean Frye, David M. O'dell, Richard Swingler, Frank Toth, etc..Rated PGGenre: Sci-Fi, Adventure, Drama, Fantasy

Fugitive Friday!...











2nd stabbing Just Occurred
2nd stabbing E. Shore Dr. And Washington St.







A Family Needs Your Help
Mr. Taylor,
The Crisfield Fire Department, Marion Fire Department, and Lower Somerset
EMS responded to a residental structure fire this afternoon on Chesapeake
Avenue in Crisfield. I am writing to see if we can get toys and clothes
donated for a 10 year old boy and a 6 year old girl so they will have
something for Christmas. If anyone is interested in donating anything it
would be much appreciated. I can be contacted at (410)726-2381 or
crisfieldfirechief2@yahoo.com

Andy's Place New Years Special


Happy New Years Eve everyone.

Ending the year with a bang this year!!

Starting with amazing homemade lunch specials starting @ $5.99

Dinner specials starting at $9.99!!

Then we end by bringing in the New Year with Latin night!!

Two DJs will be in the house!!
Lady's enter free till midnight.
Gentlemen 10 bucks all night!!

Come join us by ending the year off right!!!


One stop printing and customized specialist


Thinking of printing a customized polo tee for your class? Have a corporate event coming up and could like to design a unique T shirt to commemorate the event?We are 1 of the leading players in the business of customized corporate, schools and class T-shirt in Singapore.Our list of services

-Heat transfer printing-Silkscreen printing-Silkscreen transfer printing and other interesting applications to print your logo / design-Embroidery services-Cap embroidery-Apparel embroidery-Team wear-Badges-Aprons and Personalized Gifts-Customized Shirts, T-shirts, uniforms, Polo Tees-Customized of high performance sports wearMission-To provide a great working environment and to treat one another with respect.-Embrace diversity as an essential element in the way we do our business.-To ensure customer's satisfaction in all services provided.-Contribute positively to our communities and environment.-The need to recognise that profitability is the key to future success.Our VisionAims to be one of the leading custom print and embroidery providers in Singapore. Providing quality service and product with the guarantee of excellent finishing.


?? ????? ??? ??? ??
?? ???? ??? ????? ???????? ??? ?? ??? ?? ?????? ????? ??? ??? ???? ????? ??? ?? ???? ??? ?? ?? ??? ???? ?? ???? ??? ??? ?????? ????? ?? ?? ??????? ????? ?? ??? ???  ?? ?????? ???? ?? ?? ???? ?????? ????? ??? ?? ?????? ???????? ????? ???? ?? ????? ??? ??? ??ek arsa hua tujhase mileteri raah tak raha hoon mainjane kyun aisa lagake ab guzar raha hoon mainhar sahar se har shaam takhar pal bikhar raha hoon maintiri zulf ke unn andheron meab tak bhatak raha hoon mainkisi mod se ek mod taktera hamsafar raha hoon maimeri zindagi guzar gayike abb guzar raha hoon main

???? ????? ????? ??
"???? ????? ?????? ?????? ????? ?? ??????? ??????? ??? ?? ???? ????? ???????? ??? ?? ??? ???""uska chEhra aaFtAab thameri aNKhon ko choUNdhiya gayausne chaha tha rOuSHan karega mujhemeri rOOh tAk jala gaya."

?? ??? ???????? ???????
??? ???? ????? ????? ??,?? ???? ??? ?????? ??????? ???? ?????? ??,????? ??? ??? ?????? ????? ??????? ??, ??? ????? ??,?? ????? ??? ?????? ????? ???? ???? ?? ????? ???,????? ?????? ???? ????? ??? ???????? ???????,?? ??? ???????? ????????? ??? ???????? ?????,??? ???? ?? ?????????? ?? ??? ????? ???????,?? ????? ?? ?????????? ?? ???? ?? ?????,??? ?? ????? ?? ??????? ???? ??? ???? ?????,???? ??? ?????? ?? ???? ???? ??????? ?? ??? ???,???? ???? ???? ????? ???? ?????? ?? ???? ?? ???????,??? ?? ?? ?? ?? ???????????? ?? ??? ?????? ??,???? ??? ?? ?? ???? ???? ??????? ?? , ?? ????? ??,??? ?? ?? ??? ???? ???????? ????? ???? ?? ?? ?????? ?? ????? ?? ????????? ?? ??? ?? ????? ?? ?????? ?? ???? ?? ?????? ???? ????? ?? ????,???? ?? ???? ?? ???????? ?? ??????? ??,????? ??? ???? ?? ?? ???? ?? ??? ???????? ??????? ?? ??? ???????? ???????

???? ??? ?? ??
"???? ???? ??? ?? ????? ?? ?????? ???? ?? ?????? ?? ?????? ?? ?????? ????? ?? ???? ????????? ??? ??????? ?????? ???? ?? ??""kisi suni dagar kipadchaap si wahmere antar se umadati haichupchaap si wahkisi ankahi par aanchal odhayeapne me sambhalti haikisi raj si wah"

Big Fish Games -  New Game Releases
                            h1 a:hover {background-color:#888;color:#fff ! important;}                            div#emailbody table#itemcontentlist tr td div ul {                                          list-style-type:square;                                          padding-left:1em;                          }                                    div#emailbody table#itemcontentlist tr td div blockquote {                                  padding-left:6px;                                  border-left: 6px solid #dadada;                                  margin-left:1em;                          }                                    div#emailbody table#itemcontentlist tr td div li {                                  margin-bottom:1em;                                  margin-left:1em;                          }                              table#itemcontentlist tr td a:link, table#itemcontentlist tr td a:visited, table#itemcontentlist tr td a:active, ul#summarylist li a {                                  color:#000099;                                  font-weight:bold;                                  text-decoration:none;                          }                                   img {border:none;}                       

 
 
Big Fish Games -  New Game Releases 
 


 
 
Into the Haze 

Posted: 26 Sep 2013 12:00 AM PDT

 Rescue a young girl from the clutches of an ancient demon in Into the Haze! Guide your character through the mist of a hair-raising supernatural adventure, where she'll encounter an ancient fog demon summoned by her sister-in-law in a magic ritual gone wrong. Race to rescue the heroine's daughter, Emily, before the demon claims her prize. Your powers of observation will need to be keen as you search for hidden objects, and your puzzle-solving skills will need to be at their best as you crack dozens of brain-bending enigmas and complete mini-games unlike any you have played.
 

 
 You are subscribed to email updates from Big Fish Games -  New Game Releases 
To stop receiving these emails, you may unsubscribe now. Email delivery powered by Google 
 Google Inc., 20 West Kinzie, Chicago IL USA 60610 




Big Fish Games -  New Game Releases
                            h1 a:hover {background-color:#888;color:#fff ! important;}                            div#emailbody table#itemcontentlist tr td div ul {                                          list-style-type:square;                                          padding-left:1em;                          }                                    div#emailbody table#itemcontentlist tr td div blockquote {                                  padding-left:6px;                                  border-left: 6px solid #dadada;                                  margin-left:1em;                          }                                    div#emailbody table#itemcontentlist tr td div li {                                  margin-bottom:1em;                                  margin-left:1em;                          }                              table#itemcontentlist tr td a:link, table#itemcontentlist tr td a:visited, table#itemcontentlist tr td a:active, ul#summarylist li a {                                  color:#000099;                                  font-weight:bold;                                  text-decoration:none;                          }                                   img {border:none;}                       

 
 
Big Fish Games -  New Game Releases 
 


 
 
Enigmatis: The Mists of Ravenwood Collector's Edition 

Posted: 27 Sep 2013 12:00 AM PDT

 Enigmatis: The Mists of Ravenwood is the sequel to the smash hit Enigmatis: The Ghost of Maple Creek. It is a detective story rich with horror, plot twists, and shadowy intrigue.    A year has passed since the events of Maple Creek. But for the past few months, our detective has been hot on the trail of the demonic preacher she fought one year ago. Yet he has managed to always stay one step ahead.   She hoped to bring an end to the chase in the redwood forests of Northern California. But like so many times before, the trail went cold...    Then she encountered an abandoned camper in the middle of the highway. Enormous claw marks scored the roof and the lost family's personal belongings were scattered everywhere. All signs pointed to the scene being fresh.    And all clues led into nearby Ravenwood Park...    This is a special  Collector's Edition  release full of exclusive extras you won't find in the standard version. As a  bonus, Collector's Edition purchases count toward three stamps on your   Monthly Game Club Punch Card!   The Collector's Edition includes:
 

 
 You are subscribed to email updates from Big Fish Games -  New Game Releases 
To stop receiving these emails, you may unsubscribe now. Email delivery powered by Google 
 Google Inc., 20 West Kinzie, Chicago IL USA 60610 




Big Fish Games -  New Game Releases
                            h1 a:hover {background-color:#888;color:#fff ! important;}                            div#emailbody table#itemcontentlist tr td div ul {                                          list-style-type:square;                                          padding-left:1em;                          }                                    div#emailbody table#itemcontentlist tr td div blockquote {                                  padding-left:6px;                                  border-left: 6px solid #dadada;                                  margin-left:1em;                          }                                    div#emailbody table#itemcontentlist tr td div li {                                  margin-bottom:1em;                                  margin-left:1em;                          }                              table#itemcontentlist tr td a:link, table#itemcontentlist tr td a:visited, table#itemcontentlist tr td a:active, ul#summarylist li a {                                  color:#000099;                                  font-weight:bold;                                  text-decoration:none;                          }                                   img {border:none;}                       

 
 
Big Fish Games -  New Game Releases 
 


 
 
Sable Maze: Norwich Caves 

Posted: 28 Sep 2013 12:00 AM PDT

 Congratulations, Professor Edwards! You've joined the faculty of the oldest and most-respected university in the world. You've barely been teaching for a semester when tragedy strikes during the fall break. Four of your students have gone missing while exploring the dangerous caverns under the campus! Is the legend about the Labyrinth under the campus actually true? What's causing the abnormal physics in the water down there? You don't have much time, because the rain keeps pouring down, flooding the caverns. Dig deep and keep your head above water in Sable Maze: Norwich Caves, an intriguing Hidden-Object Puzzle Adventure game.
 

 
 You are subscribed to email updates from Big Fish Games -  New Game Releases 
To stop receiving these emails, you may unsubscribe now. Email delivery powered by Google 
 Google Inc., 20 West Kinzie, Chicago IL USA 60610 




Big Fish Games -  New Game Releases
                            h1 a:hover {background-color:#888;color:#fff ! important;}                            div#emailbody table#itemcontentlist tr td div ul {                                          list-style-type:square;                                          padding-left:1em;                          }                                    div#emailbody table#itemcontentlist tr td div blockquote {                                  padding-left:6px;                                  border-left: 6px solid #dadada;                                  margin-left:1em;                          }                                    div#emailbody table#itemcontentlist tr td div li {                                  margin-bottom:1em;                                  margin-left:1em;                          }                              table#itemcontentlist tr td a:link, table#itemcontentlist tr td a:visited, table#itemcontentlist tr td a:active, ul#summarylist li a {                                  color:#000099;                                  font-weight:bold;                                  text-decoration:none;                          }                                   img {border:none;}                       

 
 
Big Fish Games -  New Game Releases 
 


 
 
Midnight Mysteries: Witches of Abraham Collector's Edition 

Posted: 29 Sep 2013 12:00 AM PDT

 For the past few years, you've been writing bestselling novels based on the stories you've heard told by the ghosts who visit you at midnight. But tonight you have a special visitor, Abraham Lincoln, the 16th President of the United States! He wants you to go back in time and find the treasure of the Knights of the Golden Circle, a secret Confederate order, before Lincoln's enemies do! Follow the clues, while learning trivia about famous people and places from the American Civil War in this fascinating Hidden Object Puzzle Adventure game.    This is a special  Collector's Edition  release full of exclusive extras you won't find in the standard version. As a  bonus, Collector's Edition purchases count toward three stamps on your   Monthly Game Club Punch Card!      The Collector's Edition includes: 
 

 
 You are subscribed to email updates from Big Fish Games -  New Game Releases 
To stop receiving these emails, you may unsubscribe now. Email delivery powered by Google 
 Google Inc., 20 West Kinzie, Chicago IL USA 60610 




PREMIER RECEIVES KNEE JERK REACTION AWARD
     PREMIER DALTON MCGUINTY HAS BEEN NOMINATED FOR THE KNEE JERK REACTION OF THE YEAR AWARD BY THE CONSERVATIVE PARTY OF CANADA FOR HIS SUPPORT OF A TORONTO GANG FAMILY IN THEIR TIME OF NEED. YOUNG JORDAN MANNERS WAS SHOT AND KILLED AT HIS SCHOOL. IT APPEARS AFTER HIS SISTER WAS ARRESTED IN A GANG SWEEP OF THE CRIPS STREET GANG POSSESSING A PROHIBITED WEAPON, DALTON'S SCANDALOUS ATTACK ON THE LEGITIMATE FIREARMS COMMUNITY HAS FALTERED. RESPONSIBLE CITIZENS WERE TO BE CRIMINALIZED, IMPRISONED, AND OR HAVE THEIR LEGITIMATELY REGISTERED FIREARMS SEIZED TO PROTECT DANGEROUS DRUG DEALING STREET GANGS FROM CRUEL TREATMENT IN THE MEDIA. ONLY IN CANADA YOU SAY? NO OTHER COUNTRIES ARE VYING FOR THE HONOUR AS WELL. THE CONSERVATIVE PARTY WILL ESTABLISH A KNEE JERK REACTION REGISTRY IN LIEU OF GIVING DALTON THE PRIZE. OF COURSE CERTAIN AREAS OUTSIDE OF THE GTA WILL HAVE KNEE JERK REACTIONS BANNED ENTIRELY.  "Only in Canada, you say? Pity...".Gang Suspects Appear in CourtJun, 14 2007 - 9:40 PMTORONTO - A Finch Avenue courtroom was packed this afternoon as about 95 suspects rounded up in the yesterday's massive raids made their first court appearance.The sister of Jordan Manners could be among those charged. City News is reporting Nicole Small is facing firearms charges. The Manners family has been very vocal about fighting violence since Jordan's shooting death last month.The suspects arrested in yesterday's raids include 21 women and netted more than 700 charges. Five suspects under the age of 18 have also been arrested.http://www.640toronto.com/news/metro.cfm?cat=7428109912&rem=67827&red;=80110923aPBIny&wids=410&gi;=1&gm=metro.cfm "WE COULD HAVE KEPT OUR DRUGS AND GUNS IF THEY LISTENED TO MCGUINTY AND WENT AFTER REGISTERED GUN OWNERS." GANG MEMBER QUOTED AS HE WAS LED INTO COURT.http://www.torontosun.com/FrontPage/2007/06/15/4262183.html

LONDON'S CODED TERROR WARNING: PARSING PARIS

 


Recently there has been much attention to the issue of Paris Hilton being put in jail. A popular media response was Paris' fictitious letters from jail. One went so far as to circle the letters for the ease of readers. Arranging these letters realed the following:






LONDON





DOVER





METRO





CALAIS



EXETER





CIA





BOT (network security threat)





This was an amazing coincidence. It was published on the AVENUE page of the National Post June 22, 2007. Seven days later a car bomb was found in London. Quite the coincidence indeed.


When the letters are arranged as a crossword, they have even greater meaning. We took the liberty of turning 'XO' into Hug/Kiss. We had an i left over.





It can mean an imagery function that generates spectral signatures for an image to outline regions of interest. (iclass)






 


CBHS Staff List -  Brenton Cunliffe


Mr Brenton Cunliffe

Position: Teacher

Subjects:
Economics 
Business Studies 
Economic and Management Studies
Debating 
RCL

Sports:
Tennis 
Squash 

E-Mail: CunliffeB@campsbayhigh.co.za



CBHS Academic Achievements & Awards
Here are the articles on academic awards achieved by Camps Bay High School students:

2015

Academic Awards Assembly - 2 Feb '15 

2014

2013

President's Awards - Oct '13

CBHS Sports And Cultural Awards Dinner - 3 Oct '13

2012

2011

2010

2009

SINGING IN THE LIGHT
I want to share one of my secrets to happiness. It's singing...specifically singing in a group with others. One of my favorite places to do this is Barbara McAfee's "Singing in the Light" otherwise known as song circle.Hello Singer,More joyful, tender, and deeply alive singing.....Come and restore yourself with song in this warm community.Singing in the LightCommunity Singing for Everyonewith Barbara McAfeeAll on Sundays from 4 to 6 pmApril 6April 20We sings songs, rounds and chants from all over the world.No music to read, no experience necessary - all ages welcome.Our harmony at home sends light across the sea.An ongoing benefit for 50 Lanterns -- a local non-profitbringing solar technology to the poorest people of the world.http://www.50lanterns.org/Hennepin Avenue United Methodist Church511 Groveland Avenue,2nd floor art galleryMinneapolis, MN 55403Suggested donation: $10 to $20 per sessionPay what you can....don't let money keep you away!Some day we will all join in the song that started creation and all will be restored to it's intended glory. I look forward to that day.Wishing you abundant songs in your heart.JulesFOR MORE INFORMATION ABOUT BARBARA MCAFEE  click here

Ang daming LIKES ah?! Naka-iLang PM ka?  #JuiceColored!

Ang daming LIKES ah?!
Naka-iLang PM ka?

#JuiceColored!

Grade six couples... #JuiceColored!

Grade six couples be like:
Girl: Kahit dun ka na sa kabilang section, tayo pa din ah? 
Boy: Kaya ba natin ang Long Distance Relationship?

#JuiceColored!

I Love U #JuiceColored!

GIRL: I love u
BOY: talaga?! 
GIRL: haha yup!
BOY: ang sweet mo naman..
GIRL: ikaw anong favorite mong letter?

#JuiceColored!

Mabuti pa ang Roma may "Papa", Eh, ikaw? NGANGA! #JuiceColored!

Mabuti pa ang Roma may "Papa", Eh, ikaw? NGANGA! #JuiceColored!

ccloh Singapore Stock Market Zone
Commenced July 2008

???????. Record of daily market news and personal market and 
stocks analysis. The aim of this website is to provide unbiased analysis
 to the stock markets so that the retail investors could benefit from 
it. All views are based on personal capacity. Trade like Jesse 
Livermore, Invest like Benjamin Graham, Think like ???.






ccloh Singapore Stock Market Zone

Daddy Is Cooking
Commenced March 2012 

Daddy's role is not longer just the one who bring home the dough. 
It is time for Daddy find time to really bond with the family.  The best
 method to do is Daddy does the cooking.  This blog shares with all the 
Daddy how to make a simple family meal.  So all the Daddies, get your 
hands dirty and let do it !






Daddy Is Cooking

Japanese Curry Rice (?????)
Like those Japanese Curry Rice in those Japanese Restaurants ? Worry not, it is not difficult to make, can try out and make it for your family.





Japanese Curry Rice (?????)


MJ loves Singapore!
  - Funny video clips are a click away

Singapore: Chinggay Parade '07
Singapore's Annual street parade, showcasing local and foreign cultural performing groups.

Singapore: Songs of the Sea
Get ready to fall under the spell of a new nightly extravaganza set in the sea. Songs of the Sea brings you a mesmerizing show with a live cast and dramatic effects pyrotechnics, water jets, brilliant lasers, special computer imaging, bursts of fire, captivating music and stunning flame bursts. It's a one-of-a-kind entertainment that's not to be missed. Songs of the Sea is a rain or shine event.

Dad
25/2/30 - 25/11/07

Where it all began...
 Early in 1972, I was in the East Ham branch of the Co-op when I spotted this beauty. I believe it was 72p, which I had to beg from my parents. I knew of T.Rex from classroom chatter & might even have already owned Jeepster & Telegram Sam on 7" singles, but this was my first 'pop' LP. Unbeknown to me at the time, it was a just a watered down version of the Fly release 'The Best of T.Rex' with the hit title track added & housed in a hideous sleeve, but it was with this album that my black & white life became colour. All roads lead back to this moment.

Record Shops #1
 In a previous life I spent 21 years working in record/CD shops, 7 for a small East Anglian chain & 14 at my own little store, so the environment is kind of in my blood. For this reason I still go out of my way to find and support cool stores when & where I can. Downloading is undeniably quick & useful, buying online is convenient, but there's nothing better than browsing and discovering in real time, in a real store - specially if the people behind the counter are cool too.Step forward Marjorie Eisenberg of Permanent Records in Greenpoint, Brooklyn, New York. OK, so it's not on everyone's doorstep - even if you live in New York! - but trust me, if you do find yourself in the Big Apple, take the G train, make the trip & check out the store. Marjorie keeps a fine selection of new & used LP's & CD's, features a band playing live instore most saturdays and best of all, is very friendly & has great taste in music.

Don't Swop Your Old Cow For a Car
Do Re Mi from dagb on Vimeo.

How Tiny We Are
Group Inerane - TenerteSir Victor Uwaifo - Iranm'iranJape - FloatingFanga - Bassi TeEcho & the Bunnymen - ProxyAcoustic Ladyland - The Mighty Q (Simon Bookish Remake)Kath Bloom - Come HereFire on Fire - Hangman How Tiny We Are from swede on 8tracks Radio.

A Little Diversion
I've been so busy with making dolls lately I decided a little diversion was in order. I'm finally getting busy and making a photo album for my doll pictures. Nothing says organized like pictures in an album... The first step is pretty simple but effective. I found a perfect size of album at the local dollar store. The next thing was "what to do to the album to make it more creative". I put it aside as I often do, when the inspiration doesn't come right away.Now, I know. I used a sheet of ivory coloured, hand made paper that I bought at a specialty store. It's a wonderful textured paper, similar to rice paper but more durable. It's stitched all over with a scroll design and gold metallic thread. Perfect.The next step. What to put on the cover. Last night I was going through some painting patterns and there it was. In the latest issue (Mar-Apr) of SDP magazine, a wonderful woman wearing a big floppy hat and just her profile. The other element in the design is a gloved hand. Perfect again. So far all I've done is to trace the outline on. I've clipped away the threads that were lying on the face area and applied gesso to fill in the holes. This is where I'm at for now. I will add another update soon...

MadamE
This is my version of Madame, a design by Arley Berryhill. I enjoyed making this one so much I will be making her again in other colours. Her shape is just perfect. I've included a picture part way along, a full finished pic and a close up of the face. The props on the stand consist of a West Highland terrier, like my friends, and of course no MadamE would be without her champagne and pearls which stand beside her on the base. The way she came together suits a friend of mine to a "T". MadamE (the correct spelling in this case ;-)) She left ages ago for Australia where she now presides over a certain establishment that only those in the know, would be able to find her. 

The Maharaja
I finished this doll last month. It's the Maharaja and is a design by Michelle Munzone. I will have a larger picture and both front and back views on my website later this week....

New Update Options
I've added a couple of ways to keep up to date when I post new items. You can use the handy email subscription in the left column. Any time a new post is added to my blog, you will receive an email letting you know.If you prefer, at the bottom of the page is a subscription in the form of a feed. This works with Internet Explorer 7. You can choose to subscribe to a feed for my blog. When IE7 opens, you can click on the Feeds Icon (it's a small square shaped orange coloured icon), and any feeds you are subscribed to, will be listed. You then click on Northbrook Designs and a page will come up showing all the recent posts.Feel free to try both options and choose the one that works for you.

New Webpage
I've added a new webpage to my doll site called "The Ladies". You will find MadamE residing there. The "Maharaja" can be found on the "Mystical" page. I can't believe how much easier it is to update my blog, why didn't I do this ages ago.... 

Filamu mpya ya vita ya pili ya dunia

Fury: Filamu mpya ya vita ya pili ya dunia iliyomfanya Brad Pitt kuwa baba bora zaidi, 


asia mjuni

habari


mambo

hallow


Arrakis














Waimarino County and Other Excursions - Martin Edmond
Readers of Martin Edmond's Chronicle of the Unsung (2004) will have picked up his interest in archaeology and pacific prehistory.The autobiographical parts of his latest book  Waimarino County and Other Excursions (Martin Edmond, Auckland University Press 2007) give us more on how he came to that."I recall when my mother stopped her red and white Hillman Imp on a suburban street in Huntly one day and said, What's it you are going to be, a doctor or a lawyer? replying, Actualy I want to be an archaeologist." Edmond had a 1972/73 holiday job at Takatu and spent some of his spare time looking at and digging in archaeological sites. "I drew a map of the pa site and sent it to Auckland Musuem, my sole contribution to archaeology." It is easy to disagree. His writing is rich in landscape, history and their connection. This book has a startling example: an account of his accidental personal discovery of the Tongapurutu rock carvings (p81). It is a fine piece of writing which exposes his emotional response to the site. Surely not all archaeological contributions need to be as prosaic as maps.

Napoleon in Egypt
Nina Burleigh 2007 Napoleon's Scientists and the Unveiling of Egypt. Harper Collins New York.
A popular and very readable account of the 1798 adventure by Napoleon to deny Egypt to the British. Hundreds of scholars and students accompanied the expeditions and were feted but eventually abandoned by Napoleon. Denon wrote an account of travels in upper and lower Egypt which was rapidly translated into English but the main output was the massive Description of Egypt published in several parts, initially under the authority of Napoleon, but after he was deposed under that of the restored monarch - this despite many of the scholars being treated abominably under the new regime. The book was one foundation of the incorporation of ancient Egyptian design elements into Empire Style. The Taschen edition (1990) is probably the most accessible, but it is also online. Along with many of the army, a sizeable proportion of the scholars were never to leave Egypt, dying there, many of the plague.

The early contribution of engineers the Egyptology was a surprise. A military engineer recognised the importance of the Rosetta Stone when it was found in work to strengthen a fortification. The records made of the monuments of Egypt were made the engineers, those best skilled to make measured drawings. It was unfortunate the standards they started did not persist in the rest of the century - justifiably called the rape of Egypt.

So you think the Rosetta Stone is black? After it was found it had ink applied to the surface and it was used directly for taking paper copies. Over the years many more materials were added to the surface. The grano-diorite has recently been cleaned British Museum page - it turns out to be pinkish grey with a pink strip. Photo after cleaning.

NYPL Digital Gallery | Browse Source Titles
Description de l'Egypte NYPL Digital Gallery 

Bookhabit - Auckland, August 1908: A Stop on the Great White Fleet World Cruise By Robert Garry Law - This booklet places the visit of the Great White Fleet to Auckland in its New Zealand context and its geopolitical context - that of great power riva
Bookhabit - Auckland, August 1908: A Stop on the Great White Fleet World Cruise By Garry Law eBook - published 2008. This booklet places the visit of the Great White Fleet to Auckland in its New Zealand context and its geopolitical context - that of great power rivalry over prestige, territorial ambitions and projection of force by battleship lead fleets. It shows the social context of Auckland 100 years ago. Illustrated with contemporary pictures, many drawn from colour printed post cards. 37 pages.The first chapter is free - there is a small charge for downloading the whole book.

100 days - Walking to Edmonton


Starting September 5 and continuing till December 13, this is a blog by Don Gill to accompany "The New Flaneurs: Contemporary Urban Practice and the Picturesque" at the Art Gallery of Alberta. It documents a virtual walk from Lethbridge to Edmonton covering at least 1026 kilometres. A walk that will take place in many locations with many routes, deviations, sidetrips, aimless wandering, gps tracking, and errands.
Don Gill

Day Sixteen




4.25 km
Not much walking today, but did it in Edmonton, Red Deer, and Lethbridge. Drove most of the day.

Day Twenty

12.55km today. 98.25 km in the last ten days. 241.86 total. Almost at Airdrie.

Walked around the sculpture park a few times. Flickers and White Breasted Nuthatches, as well as Magpies, Jays, Doves, Geese, and Ducks. And Sculpture.

Day Eight




















10.02km 
My newspaper wasn't on the doorstep this morning so had to walk down to the shop to pick up a copy. A mixed blessing - it was a beautiful morning and I got a short walk out of it but then my newspaper wasn't delivered. Stayed in the house working most of the day but then went for a longer walk in the evening.

Day Eighteen

7.34 km
Long day at work. Lots of inside walking with outside breaks. Class walk in the morning and pinhole photo in the afternoon. Left for home in early evening light, put my feet up.
No Loitering photo donated by M (the curator) Miller, from Jasper ave. & 103 St.

godzilla 2014 720p hdtv

http://kickass.to/godzilla-2014-720p-hdts-900mb-shaanig-t9220724.html

TITLE]:........................[ Godzilla[DIRECTOR]:.....................[ Gareth Edwards[RELEASE DATE]:.................[ 16 May 2014 (USA)[GENRE]:........................[ Action | Sci-Fi | Thriller[HDTV SUPPORT]:.................[ Yes[NO OF FILES]:..................[ 1[VIDEO]:........................[ MKV - x264[AUDIO]:........................[ AAC - 2CH[FILE SIZE]:....................[ 900MB[RESOLUTION]:...................[ 1280x528[FRAME RATE]:...................[ 23.976 fps[LANGUAGE]:.....................[ English[SUBTITLES]:....................[ NONE[RUNTIME]:......................[ 01:56:00[ENCODER]:......................[ ShAaNiG[SOURCE]:.......................[ 1080p video/ QUAZiMOTO line

Awsm movie......,


Captain America The Winter Soldier (2014) 1080p BrRip x264


https://kickass.to/captain-america-the-winter-soldier-2014-1080p-brrip-x264-yify-t9401901.html
screenshots:-




general:-

FILE SIZE...........: 1.96 GBRESOLUTION..........: 1920*800FRAME RATE..........: 23.976 fpsAUDIO...............: 92.0 Kbps AAC-LC (2CH)SUBTITLES...........: NONELANGUAGE............: EnglishRUNTIME.............: 135 mins


Blog Start
Ok, so I caved. Everyone has a blog. I've resisted the 'ode to me' but sending photos and stories is getting to be a pain in the butt. We'll see how it goes.

Pugu Hills
Monday, June 20, 2005 On Sunday we went for a hike in the Pugu Hills not too far outside Dar es Salaam. It's a green area that used to stretch for hundreds of miles but now, due to deforestation, has been reduced considerably. I'm not sure how expansive it is now but it was big enough for us to get lost. Our small group of four headed out for the hike early enough in the day so as to finish by midday when it gets really hot. We didn't take a guide (my friends Peter and Soyeon wife had been here before) though a guy did approach us offering up his services as our bodyguard. Such an offer is sometimes cause for concern. Either it means it's usually a dangerous area or our refusal will cause him to go get his friends to come back and rob us. Sometimes it's safer just to pony up a couple of dollars and take the guy with you just as insurance. Nonetheless, we said no and sent him on his way. Since the brief chat was in Swahili, I didn't know what the discussion was about until I inquired after we were well on our way. Due to my new-found capacity for travel fear, I might have tried to pursuade the conversation to go in a different direction. I also wasn't sure how much confidence I had in Peter's guiding skills.  It wasn't too long before my lack of confidence was determined to be well-founded. Within probably a mile we had no idea where we were and no idea where we had come from. The brush was pretty dense so it all began to look pretty much the same. We were counting on the sun to keep us heading in what we thought was the right direction. To make a long story short, we stumbled (literally) on a guy who was illegally cutting wood. We startled each other and, after both parties realized that neither was in danger, we asked him if he knew where the lake was (our destination). He motioned for us to follow him and off we went. You just have to assume that he's leading you where you need to go instead of some grisly alternative. We zigzagged through all kinds of vegetation, bizarre looking bugs, monkeys, spiders (and poisonous snakes we found out later), etc., following the guy's impressive knowledge of the deep brush. I took a shot of him from behind (see photo). Given the illegal nature of his work, I don't think he would have appreciated my camera. When we finally came to our destination, we thanked the guy and paid him almost a week's wages for this area (about 2 bucks). He then returned to his deforestation tasks, happy to have encountered a group of dumbass Americans. After a short picnic, the trail back was easy to spot and relatively easy to follow. The trailhead was at a fairly nice resort-ish place where we had lunch and a couple of cold and very enjoyable beers. Another couple, Germans I think, recounted to us their adventures in the woods in which their guide had a brush with a deadly snake. I decided I was happier with the getting lost thing. It is comforting, however, to do stuff like this with an MD, even if they get you a little lost. In any case, the view was pretty nice and we were in no hurry to leave. It's funny, I keep doing stuff like this and I always stop to think how cool it is - how lucky I am to have the chance to do all this exploring and adventure. I hope I never take it for granted. I've been doing this sort of thing for a long time and I don't think I will.

Haruru Falls - a history lesson | Stuff.co.nz
Haruru Falls - a history lesson | Stuff.co.nz


The Light Fantastic Using airborne lidar in archaeological survey

Otago lecturer awarded Fulbright | Otago Daily Times Online News Keep Up to Date Local, National New Zealand & International News
Otago lecturer awarded Fulbright | Otago Daily Times Online Dr Ian Barber, a University of Otago archaeologist, has gained a Fulbright Senior Scholar Award, to study overseas, in Utah, in the United States, next year.

Men convicted of site vandalism | Stuff.co.nz
Men convicted of site vandalism | Stuff.co.nz

<html><a href="http://earthobservatory.nasa.gov/"target=_blank>NASA 's Earth Observatory</a>
 This is one of my favourite web sites.This  site is a great resource for the teaching of Science, Geography, Meteorology, etc. It has an amazing range of photos taken from space and they are available at high resolution which means that you can print them out especially if you have a good colour laser printer. There is information with each image  which you can edit and combine with the images to make an excellent classroom display.   

<html><a href="http://www.worldpressphoto.nl/contest/winner.jsp?category=175&prize=null&image_size=650"target=_blank>World Press Photo of the year</a>
Isn't this just appalling or is it a staged photo? I presume to win somthing like this it would have to be authenticated in some way.

<html><a href="http://www.annoyances.org"target=-blank>Computer Stuff</a>
 This is one of the best sites for troubleshooting a Microsoft system. The discussion forums are excellent.

<html> <a href="http://www.worldclimate.com"target=-blank>World Climate</a>
This is a good site for getting weather data from around the world. If you copy and paste this data into a spreadsheet like Excel you can depict this data in a graph.

<html><strong><a href="http://www.gi.alaska.edu/ScienceForum/weather.html"target=-blank>Alaska Science</a>
Here there are some interesting science articles with a particular focus on Alaska which is a very interesting area from a weather/geological viewpoint.

Bloglovin'
Follow my blog with Bloglovin



The little sewing machine that could
Once upon a time there was a little sewing machine that could. It was given to a young(ish) girl for her birthday so that she might sew wonderful things with it. But alas, it did not happen. This sewing machine sat on her shelf for over 2 years, hunched in its cheap plastic cover just waiting to be used. Despite the years of neglect this sewing machine did not lose hope in her owner and one day all her wildest dreams would come true.The little sewing machine that could, would.April 16th 2010 saw her taken out of that stuffy plastic cover, thrust onto a large wooden table to be poked, prodded, and tentatively switched on. Her owner managed to wind up a bobbin, thread the needle and, for the very first time, sew in a straight line. From that day forth she really was the little sewing machine that could.

Project 1

After stumbling upon BurdaStyle I realised that there were so many patterns that I could start out on that, funnily enough, only required me to sew in a straight line. Being the fearless sewer that I am I downloaded some free patterns and even splurged on a $1 Lydia Top which I shall be showing you today. It's an instant download pattern so it means you can purchase it on your credit card, download it and print it through your printer in a matter of minutes.

The thing that I liked most about this site, apart from all the cheap (and free!) patterns, was the fact that you could create your own account. Within this account you can upload each of your sewing projects for other users to see and comment on. Ultimately it means people that are much better sewers than I could post their interpretations of patterns or things they had simply made by looking at fabric. Very inspiring.
So let's talk about this Lydia Top. I printed off all the A4 sheets of paper and cut up the various shapes to make the top, sticky taping together any bits that crossed multiple sheets of paper. Not knowing what the word "baste" meant or how to do it I simply pinned the different sections up and tried them on. This meant I could adjust the sides to fit properly. It also meant I could take a couple of centimetres off the neckline to create a round neck which sat better.
The sewing itself was fine until I got to the armholes. It was a nightmare! I ended up with one puffy looking sleeve and one almost smoothly sewn sleeve. Although it's not too noticable and I wear it anyway. Also I thought it looked a bit bare after putting it on so I handsewed a scrap of fabric on as a bow.
The fabric is a light blue striped Jersey that I got for $3 at a fabric store in Cabramatta. Score!
Stay tuned for another project made by a girl who can certifiably sew in straight lines.

Project 2

Lydia Top - The Sequel
So I found some more Jersey fabric I had stashed away from when I first got my sewing machine and decided to put it to good use by making another Lydia Top. This one's got long sleeves like the pattern intended and will come in handy seeing as it's heading into winter now.

I followed the pattern exactly as before but again hit a wall trying to get the armholes to make any kind of sense when pinning and sewing them. I decided the pattern wouldn't get the better of me and cut off about 2 or 3 centimetres of extra fabric around the shoulder of the sleeve and voila! It sewed up perfectly first time. No puffiness, no swearing, just plain old flat shoulder seams. Hooray!
Here tis.



Ideas
Hey everyone. I have wanted to post a blog for awhile. I have alot that is going to come out, but I am actually going to start it, and add to it as I remember and think of ideas. This blog is philosophical. There are alot of premises out there that are out there, not because we find them true as humans, as ourselves; but illusions from the larger culture.Like, don't you find it strange that ads bombard us between the shows we like, until one day this strange event seems natural. Don't you think that instead of having messages designed make us feel weak, and to lead us to doing unhealthy things like shopping and spraying our pens with germ killer, we should have messages from people in our society designed to encourage and guide? We all know this. I think all young people feel this way. But what is less easy to understand, and takes a few years, is why our huge and complex society does this, and also how we used to be a long time ago. And how we don't need to be like this now.How intuition and logic are intertwined in our culture, and in our culture how we have battled with these in "recent times" (last few thousand years), and how our thinking may have gotten unbalanced. From farming, to the massively rapid--in the blinking of an eye rapid--rise of the city way of life we lead today. A world of disconnection, of suspending part of our minds, a deep spiritual part, to become socialized.But I am not even worried about it. This is because I am not trying to solve it with logic, or rationality (as they like to call this thought-strand). I can feel, and it feels right, as I see things in the world, I can see evidence of our culture experiencing an amazing renaissance. People are starting to awake from the long sleep of a self-induced nature, actually it was the dreams of their fathers and grandfathers.When we became unbalanced, it has taken some time for balance to restore itself. Specifically, I "posit" that, as I gathered during my university years, there was a time when our culture discovered that the world was not flat. (The time of Copernicus vs. the Church.) Also, the Earth was not in the centre of the universe, but more like a dust mote floating in a vast room. Apparently people felt let down, like their intuitions had failed them. They wanted to not trust their intuitions, since the worldview they had felt, had been a lie. So the scientific method vowed to be a fair, unbiased way to explore the world, and find whatever other secrets could be found-- we would only believe what we could find proof to support. Unfortunately though, this led to a worldview myopic towards only believing that which could be tested in a physical way (they say "empirically").That led to a non-logical response, but real all the same, of valuing what could be controlled in the physical world.But our logical and intuitive minds are meant to work in tandem, the one keeping the other in check. There are areas which the logical mind needs to be dominant, and areas which the spiritual awareness needs to guide. Some examples where logical thinking should dominate are areas where conscious thinking is important, like how to do something cleverly in the world; you can't just feel around with intuition for every move, you are meant to use your brain. But for areas such as making ethical decisions, for doing what you are meant to do, there are times you have to trust the subconscious. Some things are actually too complicated, you won't know why logically it was important until later, or we just aren't capable of understanding with our limited animal minds. Such as, I believe that you can feel, at any time, if you listen and are open to the truth (which can be hard to want to know), whether you are going the right direction, or blocking something that would require going the difficult path (in the short term). If you are unhappy, have "cognitive dissonance", you go the wrong way until you break down and start "listening". If you listen, then your intuition will guide you to the best path for you, in the long run. If you're not strong, then it will guide you to a path where you will gather strength. This is because we are all connected in a spiritual, non-empirically testable way.Does it feel right? You will know the answer. Is this really what I want to do? Have the courage to try asking yourself right now.Anyways, why bother writing all this? Because it is clear to me that our world is very blind to its own true behaviours, and we need to turn on the floodlights on our own selves, on our cities, and our futures. Is this really where we want to go? Do we feel good about where we have gone? About our cities? All the concrete, and the strangely rushing cars? A world where we don't usually bond or talk to our neighbours, where that need to help each other, or be a part of each other's business that we have always had, is not there. Mostly, where we are being wasteful, and polluting etc etc. Like an earth with a failing kidney-- we can't clear the wastes, and there is no available dialysis. Life wasn't meant to be as "easy" or destructive. That is not how it has grown to its marvellous state of today (that wants to keep growing).There are so many little points one could cut, like about how men take claim of ideas and inventions, that are all just natural processes. How odd. This is the thinking of an intuitive-strong mind (me, these comments). How people were never meant to be self-contained geniuses, or individuals. We aren't complete at all. We are meant to communicate with each other, and think as a group. Each of us have fragmentary consciousnesses and talents. I can think everyone in the world who doesn't understand what I understand is an idiot, and they will enjoy thinking the same of me-- it's a growing process to understand we really are all different, and are meant to help each other. It's the only way that humans succeeded.From the caves of prehistoric times, when we "had nothing", but our schemes around campfire, strategically planning our hunting battles to gain control over the animals, to a time where we feel we are gods because we have consumed everything. We feel we are like birds, in airplanes that storm the sky. But the intuitive, gentle mind notices how rudely the jet-plane forces its way through the sky, having to use so much power to do it. (Perhaps not the light, less-wasteful planes.)We need to balance ourselves now, and the revolution has already begun. It is so exciting! I see so many signs-- one is on TV, various formats of shows from news to fiction to reality shows--where I can see our society trying to understand spiritual mediums, and spiritual matters. We are trying to take this back into our understanding again. I see many people trying to make a change, and contributing to the world in a very exciting way.Everyone will have a strength. I hope you find that strength, and use it. Because another thing I know, as an intuitive-strong person is that it's going to be close. The environment is the most important issue, will rise as the most important issue (well, it already has), but for every person. We are going to be going back and finding that amazing strength that we have as humans. We are going to start caring about who has survival skills for long--term--survival. As in for future generations.Thanks, these are my theories.Nonavee DaleNew Zealand

Waking from a long sleep
People are waking up from a long sleep. After a few centuries of lying to ourselves, we are allowing ourselves to use the other half of our brain again; in public. The "left" side.The return of craftiness. People are starting to get interested in crafts again. Although unecessary due to factory products, we are realizing that such work made us happy. To tune in to materials and become a craftsperson is an amazing gift.Gardening. Garden centres are seeing record numbers of young people interested in food gardening. And learning the old arts of how to preserve the produce of their gardens into jam, into bottles, or cook with it.The environment-- people have finally listened, and are thinking about their lifestyles, about what climate change means, and they are starting to change.Television programming. I see an interest in "psychics", and spirit mediums, but for the first time this question is taken seriously. I have seen various programs gingerly begin a process of incorporating this level back into our society. How will this work? Maybe we do need to understand that which we cannot measure physically.The world has begun communicating, so all of its countries, parts, are talking and becoming closer to being one. Humpty Dumpty is getting put back together. Catalyzed by the internet, organizationally there is alot of bridging and cross-cultural exchanges. I can see people who have written books from other countries being interviewed on popular talk shows, bridging financial schemes such as micro-investment, allowing money to travel from richer to poorer countries, or such as Childfund or Unicef, Intrepid volunteering transfers people over to help... We are grappling with the problem of creating a world culture, and we don't want some of the world's people to live in suffering or chaos.That horrible and degrading show, the Flavour of Love "reality" show could exist, but a show called "Charm School" came up to battle the spiritual retardation.Some people still strive to become ever-more-specialized and harder-bigger-better-longer-taller than ever before, but those who are starting to use that underused left side of the brain, the intuitive side which "puts it all together" are finding that our world's modern culture is like an "idiot-savante". We are very clever at certain tasks, but break down at doing basic functions. (We don't clear our wastes away, we gather pollution, etc. Hey that's more like a broken kidney. But the brain is still forming, and needs to include the function of a clean whole, because there is no dialysis available for the Earth...)The awakening intuitive side of humanity asks, actually shouts, before now unheard: What is the point of building a tower higher and higher if doing so drains our source of strength of its nutrients, like a fetus that drains all the energy of the mother?Why should I train in a super-specialized area, such as athletics, if most people grow increasingly unfit?Why should I become the sole creative genius out of millions, if most people are too intimidated to ever write a poem or paint anything at all?Or why should I become a super-specialized researcher that finds the secret of making people live even longer, when the world is already overpopulated?I think we are wanting to have gardens.To experience some wind and mud and pain.I am.

Understanding the sacrifice of eating meat













Ok, here is my take with the modern life (take as in matter or issue, Maori word, said tah-kay): One, we disconnect ourselves from killing what we eat, and pretend that we are now too civilized to kill anything. I for one want to be responsible, know what I am doing, and also to understand what it is I am doing. The closest I have come to understanding what it means to kill another animal for food is watching a program which took very unfit English people to a very traditional upper steppes village in Pakistan (the Shimshal). The people still ate and lived very healthily, they ate mostly lentil dishes with yak butter. Eventually they had the people who were getting better health, and becoming less obese, take care of a yak until at the end, having to watch him be killed in their honour. In the reality program, the obese English people were crying and coming to understand the sacrifice the yak had made-- I think I finally understood that the sacredness about it was to be grateful and respectful for the sacrifice of a living soul, for whatever reason. I think it's simpler than we modern people make it out to be, it's simple, and it is both good and bad.

Anyways, I want to be reconnected to this sacred reality. I don't want everything to not have much feeling to it, like buying polystyrene wrapped red stuff from a big grocery store, and selecting a few people to have the lifelong occupations of killing animals for us. That's weird.

I believe the complexity of modern society is going to devolve back into smaller units again, it's so uncomfortably complex. Like people having chooks (hens) in their yard again. And having a pig, or milking cow.

Another take I have with my culture is the competitive mantra. Like individuals were meant to compete against each other, for the sake of themselves, and that's all fine. There are many reasons why it's not fine. For one thing, it doesn't distribute wealth equally at all, the experiment "of the West" has failed in that way-- and it's also totally destructive on the environment-- bigger better, using more resources, despite not leaving any to regenerate themselves. Screw the next generation, I am stronger than they. But the reason I thought of this today was this intuition I always had about strong men, or strong young people. Some people believe that because they are stronger, they are meant to take this strength and use it for their own purposes, competing against the community. Boys are stronger than girls, and young more than old, so that they can contribute this to the team. You don't run past the old folks and say Aha! Of course people have power in different areas. You don't hold it over each other. It grew to be a valuable part of the team, and is nurtured within the group. Our freedom from the group that we enjoy is a freedom from social group responsibilities-- a freedom which has resulted in this cold world we live in today.

We lie to ourselves about many things, to enable our lifestyle today. We lie about being non-violent, non-killers, we lie to ourselves so we can wield wealth over each other-- be like Donald Trump, smiling smugly as he uses his power for his own self, not the greater community-- as stupid with lack of wisdom as he is cunning with his wits-- and the biggest lie that we tell ourselves, is my final take with our culture:

We lie to ourselves that we can live with such modern luxuries and easiness and escape from the hardships of life because we have outwitted nature, basically. We have made inventions that work so we do not. This was our dream, anyways. But that's not what happened. We live in great luxury because we take what we want from nature, ie we take too much. AND our very wasteful society also depends on many other countries which are "developing" to give us raw materials for not much money, basically to live in poverty below the clouds, overpowered by us, as well (e.g. Brazil with its money crops they need to grow to pay first-world debt). It's a bubble that is going to burst, because we won't see it for ourselves. We live beyond our means, and get a temporary relief from economy in life, from having to labour physically as much, and from having to become skilled and creative (using resources unwastefully requires becoming skilled)-- and do things for ourselves, but since we are using up all these resources, our future children are going to be living with the opposite reality.

Oh, Donald Trump, you stupid man, stick that in your pipe and smoke it.



Arise, my Love!
The voice of my beloved! Behold, he comes, leaping upon the mountains, bounding over the hills. My beloved is like a gazelle, or a young stag. Behold, there he stands behind our wall, gazing in at the windows, looking through the lattice.

My beloved speaks and says to me: "Arise, my love, my fair one, and come away; for lo, the winter is past, the rain is over and gone.

The flowers appear on the earth, the time of singing has come, and the voice of the turtledove is heard in our land. The fig tree puts forth its figs, and the vines are in blossom; they give forth fragrance.

Arise, my love, my fair one, and come away.

O my dove, in the clefts of the rock, in the covert of the cliff, let me see your face, let me hear your voice, for your voice is sweet, and your face is comely. 

-- Song of Solomon 2: 8 - 14

STEADFAST LOVE OF THE LORD

But thou, O GOD my Lord, deal on my behalf for thy name's sake; because thy steadfast love is good, deliver me! For I am poor and needy, and my heart is stricken within me. (Ps 109:21-22)
Help me, O LORD my God! Save me according to thy steadfast love! Let them know that this is thy hand; thou, O LORD, hast done it! (Ps 109:26-27)
With my mouth I will give great thanks to the LORD; I will praise him in the midst of the throng. For he stands at the right hand of the needy, to save him from those who condemn him to death. (Ps 109:30-31)


hey every 1!i guess you dont know much about me...
come to mybolg to find out more

Maths Goal
My goal is to understand the relationship between fractions, decimals and percentages.

To do this I will:
Practise converting fractions to decimals by finding common denominators.
Make sure that I read the question carefully, so that I understand what I have to do.


My First Post
Today I created my learning blog this is where I will record my learning goals and reflections. I have a great teacher and I love being in 7JOH. :) 

Personal Goals
I will continue to be focused and well organised. 

I will achieve this by:
checking my time table every day
starting my homework the night I get it
make more time for my personal reading




Reading Goal
My goal is to read more quickly to gather information and understand language features in up to date texts.

I will achieve this by: reading from a wider variety of fiction and nonfiction books.

Maths Goals Term 2
1. My goal is to work on finding common factors and multiples.
2. My goal is to work on simplifying fractions and converting fractions into percentages.

I will achieve this by:

Finding activities on them in my dragon maths book
practice at home
make some questions for converting fractions into decimals and percentages.



Capitulation Appearing - But Do We Have Further To Go?
Signs are finally showing that the market is beginning to capitualte, at least on a short-term basis. Thursday saw another day where down volume swamped up volume on the NYSE by more than 9:1. Volume spiked. The price drop was over 2.5% in the major indices. The VIX has finally begun to spike. We seem to be in the midst of a waterfall decline. I ran several tests last night looking for indications that a bounce was immenent. I was dissapointed. Below is one example: S&P 500 hits 50-day low on the largest decline in 50 days and largest volume in 50 days. Breadth is at least 9:1 negative. Hold X days:The instances found are as follows:10/16/87 (and 10/19/87), 10/13/89, 10/27/97, 8/4/98, 8/27/98, 5/17/06, 2/27/07, and 7/26/07.Some pretty scary selloffs among that bunch. I'd suggest traders review their charts to see those dates. As stretched as the market is, and with breadth, volume, and sentiment indicators all spiking a bounce is surely coming soon. Stepping in too early could make for some hairy trading, though. My Capitualtive Breadth Indicator has only reached "3" at this point. While it doesn't capture every spike lower, I'd be more comfortable getting aggressive if it was at "7" or higher. Nibbling may be ok, but my studies suggest caution is warranted. As I write this in the morning the futures are already bouncing over 1.5%- making for a difficult entry for traders even looking to nibble.Regards,Rob

Capitulative Breadth Indicator Update
There have been some strong moves up this morning (and yesterday) in stocks that matter to my Capitulative Breadth Indicator(CBI). It will almost certainly close at 3 or lower this afternoon (down from 7). This will signal a fairly quick end to the trade. It is important to understand that the drop in the CBI does NOT indicate the rally attempt will fail. Rather it indicates the capitulative excess has been reduced. The bounce I was looking for arrived. I will be taking profits before the end of the day.

Another account of the days....
CLICK ON THE PICTURE TO ENLARGE

Arriving in Montreal 1963


Bellwoods Street


Birth...Death...Rebirth


ACLC Roxas with kasabad
Kasabad humbly announced it's formal participation in the Proud to be an AMA CLC Roxas Student Blogging and SEO Challenge. I know this challenge will encourage student's of ACLC Roxas to explore and know the latest happenings and demands beyond the world of computing.I am kasabad, (as what it literally means in hiligaynon that a very noisy person). I'm just only happened to opened an internet browser and eventually found the meaning of a blog and SEO last year and this time I was encouraged by my classmates to participate and join. :) Howdy, I just a newbie wanting to learn this thing together with the prize money for my family.I am very proud to be an AMA CLC Roxas Student. Good Luck to all participants and for those who doesn't, try and discover the beauty, excitement and addiction to blogging.

Back to School
Oh no.!. The holiday season has finally ended, the long vacation days for us has come to an end. I enjoyed a lot of things this long holiday where I find myself so happy because there's no problem for any school notes, I could sleep so late and wake up so late also, I find myself roaming around to relax my whole body and mind but in the end I was still tired of having such nice holiday time. :)Happy Happy New Year to Students, Faculty and Staff of ACLC Roxas*Oops don't forget about Chief Fred and Syrel with the working students*This opening of the year 2009, this Proud AMA CLC Roxas Student wishes a prosperous new year to all. God Bless us all.I missed a lot in our school, more particularly the internet time. Oh no, i need to update my blog for the contest. The Proud to be an AMA CLC Roxas Student blog of mine must be updated in order for it to be indexed. Good Luck to all of us and enjoy your life.

Happy Happy Birthday Sir Ronald
Happy Happy Birthday Sir RonaldI was late to have the information about the birthday of our loving School Director the energetic, the master musician no other than Sir Ronald. Sir Happy happy birthday belated. :)We wish you sir many birthday's to come, good health and prosperous 2009. Good Luck and God Bless.This is my simple way of greeting you sir and saying that I am Proud to be an AMA CLC Roxas Student.

Newly Wed Sir Loel & Maam Jiji
<br />digg_url = 'http://digg.com/celebrity/Newly_Wed_Sir_Loel_Maam_Jiji';<br />Congratulations to the newly wed Couple of ACLC Roxas Sir Loel and Maam Jiji.Even this proud ACLC Roxas Student doesn't attended the event still I can say that the both of them were very happy. After a long time of waiting for the next chapter of their life and now they are now together. Tied with ring and vows of the church.Yesterday after I returned to our School building, I eventually saw the both of them - the happiness and joy in their faces can't be measured. Love is in the air. :)So much for my simple blog, once again this Proud to be an AMA CLC Roxas Student extending myCongratulations and Best Wishes!!!

THE SENATE
http://www.punchng.com/news/lawans-group-threatens-legal-action-against-sarakis-election/

Back In Brother's Formation , Alwal
I came back from Pune on September 18th and now in Brother Formation House, Alwal.On October 4th we will be celebrating the Brothers' Day along with St. Francis of Assisi Feast.Brother Rajesh, the Director of Brother Formation here is busy with all the invitations for the SVDs, Priests and nuns nearby. The candidates are choir practices and preparing for the day.All are in good spirits.Fr. Joy Joseph

Back In


3rd blog subject
3rd blog desc       

again both post 4
again both post 4       

BBC News - MP3 players face noise limits recommended by EU
BBC News - MP3 players face noise limits recommended by EU: "MP3 players face noise limits recommended by EUScientific experts say the maximum setting should be 85 decibelsThe European Commission is calling for a suggested maximum volume to be set on MP3 players, to protect users' hearing.The commission wants all MP3 players sold in the EU, including iPods, to share the same volume limits.This follows a report last year warning that up to 10m people in the EU face permanent hearing loss from listening to loud music for prolonged periods.EU experts want the default maximum setting to be 85 decibels, according to BBC One's Politics Show.Users would be able to override this setting to reach a top limit of 100 decibels.In January, a two-month consultation of all EU standardisation bodies will begin on these proposals, with a final agreement expected in the spring.Some personal players examined in testing facilities have been found to reach 120 decibels, the equivalent of a jet taking off, and no safety default level currently applies, although manufacturers are obliged to print information about risks in the instruction manuals."Proudly presented by teamwork of www.lahorefun.com

Colors of my Nephew
Colors of my Nephew Asim :)Originally uploaded by hellosherazIt is cool to enjoy Blog systems

DSCN4126
DSCN4126Originally uploaded by hellosheraztest base posting.

True Facts  of Eid e Ghadeer ( by Muhammad Rizwan)



The great blessed day when everything was made clear for the Islam seekers issued by Allah.At this day wilayat of Imam Ali (AS) was declared.i have collected some refrences of it too, for the guidance of those who have not yet read about Eid e Ghadeer.The day is celebrated on every 18th of Dhul-hijjah.
After the conclusion of Farewell Pilgrimage(Hijjatul-wada) in 11 A.H (632 AD), the Prophet (SAW) of Allah  gathered together all his companions at Ghadir-e-Khum on the 18th of Dhi'l-Hijja. Some of those who had gone ahead were called back by order of the Holy Prophet and those who had lagged behind were awaited.Prophet Muhammad announced that he had received an important revelation from Allah.
As in Surah Almaida verse 67





O Messenger, announce that which has been revealed to you from your Lord, and if you do not, then you have not conveyed His message. And Allah will protect you from the people. Indeed, Allah does not guide the disbelieving people. 


Sibt Ibn Jauzi in his Tadhkirat'u- Khasa'isi'l-Umma fi Ma'rifati'l-A'imma and others has written that there were 120,000 people gathered there. 
The Holy Prophet(SAW) ordered a pulpit to be prepared. He mounted the pulpit and delivered a long sermon, a greater part of which contained the virtues and merits of the Commander of the Faithful.The whole umma was commanded to offer bait (allegiance) to Ali.The Holy Prophet(SAW) said that he gave this instruction in compliance with the command of Allah.Then the Holy Prophet said, "O you people! Have I not the greater claim than you have on your lives.The crowd with one voice shouted "Certainly, O messenger of Allah!" Then the Holy Prophet declared:
"Of whomsoever I am the maula, (master) this Ali is his maula." After this he raised his hand and prayed to Allah. "O Allah, be you a friend to him who is a friend to him (that is, Ali) and be an enemy to him who is an enemy to him (Ali). Help him who helps him and forsake him who forsakes him.

It also written in the Musnad of Ahmed ibn Hanbal the isnad of al-Bara ibn Azib
i will highlight here as same as traced

" We were in the company of Messenger of Allah.We stayed at Ghadir Khumm.We were called upon to perform congretional prayer.A couple of trees were swept under for the Messenger of Allah who performed the noon prayers then took the hand of Ali(as) and said, ' Do not you know that i have more rights on the believers themselves have?' They answered in the affirmative.He(SAW) asked them 'Do not you know that i have more rights on every believer than the believer himself has?' They answered in the affirmative.He took 'Ali (AS) by the hand and said.
" To Whomsoever i have been the master, Ali (henceforth) is his master.O Lord! Befriend whoever befriends him and be the enemy of whoever antagonizes him." 







This has also been mentioned in -TIRMIDHI (SAHIH VOL 2 PAGE 298) through isnad of Zaid ibn Arqam and Ibn e Maja.

ROLE OF MEDIA IN DIVIDING MUSLIM COMMUNITY      (by Muhammad Rizwan)
If we take a casual glance at whole media in Pakistan most of the media platforms specially Geo news are just portraying the different sects with funding of anti-muslim communities,making our religion a source of conflict,like if i talk about movie Bol released by Geo platform with idea of Shoaib Mansoor depicted much of  negative aspects or i would rather say its funding was mainly by jews,the theme of movie was bit appreciable that" marnay py saza hai paida karny py nhi" but behind the curtain theres a big propaganda against muslim integrity to infuse more and more hatred of Mullas. as the way how this theme was reshaped was totally wrong.I don't know from whom shoaib mansoor or the geo media managers asked to have some related religion content for movie because that had totally a bad impact on society.
Why don't we use our Media for good rather than portraying the worst aspects.we always depict the few bad impacts our society so that the already good things may get spoil by it.Have India's media or western media ever highlighted the internal differences of sects or racism while in their religion there is a more concept of racism (i am not going to explain that one, but can give true facts in comments if anyone asks and sorry for other religion members if something seemed bad to them) they have not highlighted their weaknesses they just show the way to be more optimistic and purposefull and thats what took them to peak of success but we are happy in pushing our ownselves.

Geo news intentionally did such stuff as it has been paid for it to separate muslims in more and more communities or litting a fire among hearts of religious believers while we are bound together with same unique ideology. i would rather make an idiomatic phrase about the movie that it was just like giving a sweet honey on knife to young ones(new generation).The lesson which Shoaib Mansoor wanted to have reflect in movie can be done by simple way but specially sects were included in movie Shia and Sunni, and in very planed manner persons depicting each sect was shown negatively and were against each other. It may be like just few percentage in whole muslim community but the movie was made to spoil  peace and secure environment with what muslims are joined together as it would be more easier for our enemies to break us if already we are broken by ourselves.Without knowning true facts we just head where our media leads and start demolishing our muslim brothers by calling some sect kafir,munafiq etc, and with this the real Kafir(non beleiver) takes advantage and attacks ourselves while we already are helpless.Well by the way who has given us right to call any one kafir or munafiq, we have no right to declare anyone of that. Its a matter of him and Creator The Almighty Allah, just for a while think what our Holy Prophet Muhammad SAW told us, he just wanted us to be together to rule the world in every field of life.Have you ever pondered upon the fact how many muslims there are in whole world its about 3 billion muslims in total of 7 billion world population and 62% of muslim community live in asia thats why those who want to crush islam are attacking afghanistan,Iran,iraq and some operations in Pakistan.We just need to wake up and get ourselves on same platform which was founded by Holy Prophet SAW. Spain which was a major ruling part of muslims in past,at that time we ruled the whole world just because we were awared of our purpose in world to get more and more knowledge, doing scientfic recreatinary research written in our Holy Quran and being on same platform of brotherhood.If we have read Quran for purpose we may not have such condition as we are having now,we need to be together if we want to have an honoured life and only succes will be on our way we will have the mercy of God, as its written in Quran. 
In Surah Hujrat 49 verse 10

"The Believers are but a single brotherhood: So make peace and reconciliation between your two (contending) brothers; and fear Allah, that ye may receive Mercy." 
whats the first basic thing is to gather ourselves to protect the honour of our faith and belief.We have to be reasonable in every matter of our social life and saying no to such initiatives that intends to harm our integrity and brotherhood like Geo news and movie like Bol.Here i have a video which confirms the aid from islam haters to Geo news.


These forces are aiding media to just confuse our generation that what type of islam they are following, indoctrinating hatred for Islam and showing us the path towards Turkish Islam.

You Are Never Alone ( By Muhammad Rizwan)


I have seen we all are afraid of being loneliness, whenever we aspect something for a materialistic thing or a desire we mostly are betrayed from it and after that we claim to be most broken person in the world, why today everyone has impact of sadness only because we have broadened our desires, even if we get something that will never be sufficient to our needs.Our needs is a series of chain,its never gonna stop so is there any point where we feel ourselves calm and relaxed or we continue ourselves merging in getting more and more.
we ourselves have made life so complex that its like a puzzle to live within it.Make yourself relieved from things have a calm breath, ponder uponthe fact that where whats your destiny actually is.
We all have to die one day so why we are running after some other thing while we are having a destiny other then that.Search the fact that are here for us to be discovered upon,see the life how much beautiful it is,whats Allah has blessed us with in it.But even all of that we never thought of our Creator with heartly.He is the one who love us with affection thats more than the entire love and affection of 70 mothers.i would rather say here instead of loving just creation love the Creator first. I am not saying not to love the creation but prefer your Creator to be loved rather than creation. today most of us expect things with other persons but thats just the fabric of fantasies.Love the creation,do help them, do serve them but dont make them the owner of your own feelings as what we all do today.Just think how much we have been loved by Allah so we have to repay Him back by offering prayers by keeping His breation safe, by pondering upon the beauty He has scattered.
To squeeze up the thread of disscusion i will add here that sometimes realties are bit depressing too.we are just happy to live in fantasies..but fantasy is still a fantasy.have we thought of a reality that e has to die one day.Theres a fix time of death of everybody.Have we make arrangements for our new life?have we done any good deed in the past? But still we have time we can turn to Allah before we return to Allah.Have the light of His Teachings to attain the peak of your sacred self.

In Surah Al Maida ,ayat 15 and 16 it is mentioned that






"...A light has come to you from Allah and a clear book," (15)with which Allah guides those who seek his pleasure to the paths of peace. by his permission he takes them out from darkness to the light, and guides them to a straight path. (16).

 

I would add here a poem written by anonymous describing the fact of life and its aspects.



"Allah shines His light,
Through the darkness of the night,



When you are walking through the forest and the heavy trees.
And you trip on a branch that makes you fall to your knees,



And you feel so lost,

So you call to Allah:



Help me please!

Guide me! Guide me!



So you begin to walk on the path wondering if its right,
because your sight is weakened from the darkness of the night,



And wonder why, you still feel lost,

Even after you have called to Allah.



When He himself declared He won't change the situation of a person,

If that person doesn't change their actions,



Then you remembered the saying of Allah,

And figured out why you were lost,



That all you have to do,
is use the light He's given you,



Shine it on your guide,
And He will be there by your side.



Guiding you through life, the darkness of the forest ,and the heavy trees,
To paradise, and the beautiful breeze.



And all you have to do,
Is use the light He's given you,



Shine it on the guide,
And He'll be there by your side,



The light is Ahlulbayt and the Guide is your Qur'an.
Use them wisely, before your prayed upon.



 




Expression
Driving home from school today was really depressing. The amount of mad (schizophrenic) people or homeless people that I pass on my way home, really got me today. I am not sure why it was today of all days that it affected me, but it did. Sometimes the things they say are funny, but their existence, their meagre existence, is not only pitiful, but heart-breaking. What can we do for these people? I want to live a life of purpose, one that will change people's lives. I don't want to be another observer I want to do something, to change something, to be something.....:D

Front page story of The Star
LEWD EMAIL TARGETS LISPolitician and Miss World 1993, Lisa Hanna, is concerned about an explicit viral email titled ' PNP Candidate from South East St.Ann'. The e-mail consists of 14 pictures, most of which show a woman and two men engaging in various sexual acts.  The email suggests that the woman in the photographs is Hanna. While the woman does bear a slight resemblance to the former beauty queen, a close look at the images shows that it is not her. When THE STAR contacted Hanna, she said she was aware of the e-mail and revealed that it had been circulating since last July, while she was campaigning. While not being overly disturbed about the misrepresentation of her name and image, she expressed concern for the women in the message and emphasised the need for the implementation of legislation against cyber crime. Elevate our standards She told THE STAR, "It doesn't bother me. It's not like I don't want to come out of my house because people think I'm a porn star. I'm not dying, but we need to elevate our standards. I'm concerned for the woman. There is no legislation for cyber crime and these people are perpetuating a crime. They can digitally enhance people's image and their character."  She also expressed disgust at the fact that people devoted time to creating such messages and that people were actually interested in viewing them. "I can't believe people are interested in this propaganda, and that people sit down and come up with it. What I would like to say to these people, is stop doing it because you are perpetuating a crime. My heart goes out to the woman and I feel very sad as a woman." Hanna said she was very interested in lobbying for legislation covering these crimes to be passed, and said she was considering filing a private members motion, for parliament to consider and debating the enactment of these laws. http://www.jamaica-star.com/thestar/20080418/news/news1.html

The Internet
As teens going to high school and having access to the internet, atleast one e-mail 'bashing' another person or one of sexual content must have crossed your paths. In 2008 there has been a great increase in such emails, and now they are loaded with sexual content. There has been the Norman Manley high school video, the 'BEACH' pictures, the lesbian pictures, the UTECH girl pictures, the Lisa Hanna look-a-like pictures, and more recently the Kingston Technical High School video.Why do persons do this? It has been said that there is a competition between the schools to see who can produce the best sex video. This is really disgusting. These kids should be concentrating on school work, not sex, especially IN SCHOOL sex. I am sure these parents don't worry about their child's safety when they send them to school. But, the truth is the same sexual predators you find on the streets may be found in schools.Why use the internet to bash people? Well, for one, it is the easiest way to spread information. Recently my cousin told me of an e-mail which was aimed at a girl from her school. This e-mail told of various persons the girl hated and other such information. In another e-mail, the perpetrator wrote, it was stated that most of the things written were lies, but the perpetrator envied the girl so much she did it so the girl's friends would stop talking to her.Don't you think this is Internet Crime? No it is not the identity theft or internet scam, but it is damaging to people.In The Gleaner today it stated that the government is cracking down on the sex-video wave and has begun to implement The Child Pornography Act. This act will make it illegal to produce, possess or circulate pornographic material. The Minister of Education also stated that they will be working closely with school administration and parents in order to crack down on this new phenomenon.This is a good idea, yes, but it will be VERY difficult to track down such emails. For one, the media does not hear about it until weeks or even months after and then what really can be done? It is also very difficult to track down the source of the e-mail. Will all of us who get the e-mail be prosecuted for possessing pornographic material? More really needs to be said on this matter.A crime does not only have to be physical, as words can hurt just the same or even more. It's just that words don't leave visible scars. We also need to find a way to target people who write nasty commens about others but the situation of the sexual videos is a much bigger issue.PS: THE GLEANER IS VERY INTERESTING TODAY....HAVE A LOOKwww.jamaica-gleaner.com

Political Rights and Freedoms?
It has been mentioned several times on the news about the JUTC (Jamaica Urban Transit Company) wanting to take over the UWI and UTECH chartered bus routes. As they declare that the UWI and UTECH buses are infringing on their routes and as such they have the right to take them (the routes) back.Now this to me is utter rubbish. The JUTC will never be able to run the route as smoothly as these chartered people do. Isn't this the government that declares that nobody will be poor nor rich, hence live comfortably? How then can they take away these bus drivers' livelihood? Wouldn't they then be added to the vast amount of unemployed persons in Jamaica?The JUTC also told them (the bus drivers) that if they do not give up the routes they will have to pay them (the JUTC) $13, 000 per seat, per year. Now in this day and age with the approaching American recession how is it that they will be able to provide for themselves and also pay them this money each year?I really think the JUTC has passed its place and should allow these people to do their job. They are hired by the Universitites to safely transport their students. The JUTC is just greedy. They want all the routes, yet do not have the required number of buses to do so.  Joan Gordon-Webbley and her team need to take a back seat and allow the people to do their job and to sustain themselves. She needs to focus on sorting out JUTC's problems instead of trying to "mash up" other people's lives.

????!
   ?????????? ??????????? ??? ???? ?????????? ???? ????????????? ??????????? ?????????? ???????? ?????????? ??????? ?????? ???? ????????? ?????? ????????? ??????????? ??? ??????????????????? ??? ??????? ??????? ?????????? ??????? ????????? ?????? ????????? ???????? ???????????? ?????? ????? ????????? ?????? ????????????? ??? ??????????? ??????? ??????????????? ?????? ????????? ???? ???????????????? ?????? ????????? ??????????? ??????? ??????? ???? ?????? ??????? ?????????? ???????? ?????? ?????????? ???? ??????????  ??????????? ??? ???? ???? ??????? ???????? ????????????? ???????? ??????? ????????? ????????????? ?????. 

10???1????
????????Chinese Idol???????????????American Idol??????????????????????????????????...



2014-09-17 FOX 5 (NY) News at 5 American Idol Auditions
From http://www.myfoxny.com/category/237033/live-video-on-myfoxny Adam Lambert at 1:42.



Adam Lambert Talks American Idol Full Circle | On Air with Ryan Seacrest
Adam Lambert stops by the studio to talk about his journey from American Idol contestant to guest judge alongside Jennifer Lopez an Harry Connick Jr. SUBSCRI...



Adam Lambert to Judge &#39;American Idol&#39; New York Auditions [video]
Adam Lambert to Judge 'American Idol' New York Auditions - Adam Lambert joined to American Idol's judges for one episode on 16th Sept. Video source: https://...



American Idol 14: Jennifer Lopez Claims More More Talent to Choose From
American Idol 14: Jennifer Lopez Claims More More Talent to Choose From.



Kim Kardashian's brother was attacked by at least 5 people in a barfight  last saturday and was horribly injured  along with Rockstar Girlfreind Aviril lavine ....



Avril Lavigne is on the mend following an attack in L.A.     early Sunday (Nov. 6). Lavigne's boyfriend, Brody Jenner (of     MTV's "The Hills" fame) reported to police that he was hit with     a smashed bottle outside the Hollywood Roosevelt Hotel, while     Lavigne detailed her injuries on her Twitter account.

Los Angeles police Sgt. Keith Green said Monday (Nov. 7)     that Jenner filed a police report of assault with a deadly     weapon after being hit.

According to Lavigne's      Twitter, she was "attacked by five people     last night out of nowhere... My face is f*cked." She      added: "As in, black eye, bloody nose,     hair ripped out, scratches, bruises and cuts. So not OK to be     abusive to others. Violence is NEVER the answer." 

Check out this footage from the scene , all I can say is wow 


Jenner      tweeted his own experience, saying:     "Interesting Saturday night... Just got of the hospital with a     new scar on my face.. Charges/chargers!!!"

Lavigne's rep could not be reached by Billboard.com for     comment.

MJ'S PICK-------------------- VIDEO OF THE WEEK


Monday Memes
Microfiction Monday is hosted by Susan @ Stony River ~ where a picture paints 140 characters, or even fewer. Susan says:Photos will be from my own archives; illustrations are from Dover Publications' free clipart sample newsletter.Macro Monday is hosted by Lisa @ Lisa's ChaosMellow Yellow Monday is hosted by Drowsey MonkeyMetamorphosis Monday is hosted by Susan @ Between Naps on the PorchMosaic Monday is hosted by Mary @ Little Red HouseMoody Monday is hosted by TraceyMonday Poetry Train Revisited is hosted by gautami tripathyBig Tent Poetry is hosted by poets Carolee Sherwood, Deb Scott and Jill Crammond-WickhamMarketing Mondays is hosted by Tara and JamieManic Monday is hosted by Fleur de Lisa - 3 Question promptsMiscellany Monday is hosted by Carissa GrahamWeekday Photos is hosted by CaileanMonday = Creative Colours

Thursday Memes
Magpie Tales is hosted by WillowWindow Views...and Doors Too is hosted by maryt/the teachSepia Scenes is hosted by maryt/the teachYard Art on Thursdays is hosted by maryt/the teach @ Work of the PoetLetters That I'll Never Send is hosted by MysMama Kat's Writer's Workship is hosted by Kathy @ mamakatslosinitTheme Thursday is hosted bypadraig mouse (aka kimy) Squirrel Brian Miller tut-tut dennis Megan Vintage Thingie Thursday is hosted by Suzanne aka TheColoradoladyTablescape Thursday is hosted by Susan @ Between Naps on the PorchTransformation Thursdays is hosted by GinaWeekday Photos is hosted by CaileanThursday = Urban

Tuesday Memes
That's My World Tuesday is hosted by Klaus Sandy Wren Fishing Guy SylviaRuby Tuesday is hosted by maryt/the teach @ Work of the Poet Tuesday Takes is hosted by Fredamans @ Day OneShutter Love Tuesdays is hosted by Tara and JamieCommunal Global is hosted by LolaThe Queen's Meme is hosted by Mimi Lenox ~ Changing writing prompts each weekSweet Shot Tuesdays is hosted by DarcyWeekday Photos is hosted by CaileanTuesday = Macro

Wednesday Memes
Watery Wednesday is hosted by 2sweetnsaxy aka T. BruceWhite Wednesday is hosted by Kathleen @ Faded Charm CottageWordless Wednesday (new home)Centerpiece Wednesdays is hosted by the Style SistersLovely Photo Wednesday is hosted by Hannah Nicole @ AspireOutdoor Wednesday is hosted by Susan @ A Southern Daydreamer 3 Word Wednesday is hosted by Thom @ Three Word WednesdayMidweek Blues is hosted by Rebecca Haegele @ The Dusty CellarSensational Haiku Wednesday is hosted by Jenn Weekday Photos is hosted by CaileanWednesday = Creative Editing

Friday Memes
Wheels Friday is hosted by Gemma @ Greyscale TerritorySkyWatch Friday is hosted by Klaus Sandy Wren Fishing Guy SylviaFriday Flash 55 is hosted by G-Man aka MrKnowItAll Looking at the Sky on Friday is hosted by Tisha aka Crazy Working MomAloha Friday is hosted by Kailani using a simple question prompt like:The one thing that always makes me laugh is . . .Feature Yourself Friday is hosted by RachelleFriday Fun Finds is hosted by Kirstin and JordanFriday Photo Flashback is hosted by AliciaWeekday Photos is hosted by CaileanFriday = Nature 

i love shoes














Hundal Ready to Roll
Surrey-Tynehead NDP candidate sounds anxious to take on Christy and the BC Liberals and soon. Putting to rest the Party infighting of last fall that brought about the election of Adrian Dix as the new leader, NDP stalwart Hundal claims that people are ready for a change. Further details can be found in the Metro.

christmas time
Some time ago I have lost the spiritual meaning of Christmas (or maybe I never had it at all), but my mom keeps forcing me and the rest of a family to keep celebrating the 'special time'. In practice, it all concentrates on the food and the presents. As I said, I'm not a fan of Christmas, it all seems fake and pretentious to me: spending tremendous amounts of money just to eat for three days, gain some weight and being lazy overall without feeling guilty. What a waste. The only good thing about Christmas is time off from college. Nearly three (yes, 3!) weeks off, being precise. Of course, I keep thinking of summer exams, so it's not going to be totally lost, but for sure a little less tight than usual. Fingers crossed.



Here's my Christmas Tree, any bigger wouldn't fit:





christmas vs. minimalism
The idea of minimalism, an ecological non-consuption, seems to be the complete opposite to the Christmas. How can people overcome that madness of shopping, buying, cooking and after all, throwing the leftovers away? I've got some simple tips which I want to turn to life this year.
First of all, buying tons of missed presents isn't a good idea. To avoid this, I've asked everyone in my family what do they need or what do they want. Of course, that looses the excitment of surprise but doesn't leave anyone with unwanted or repetative presents. If you struggle with the idea or can't/don't want to ask, why not to make something practical or simple, pretty gadget by yourself? Hand-made gifts will always be appreciated. Recycle your old stuff and give it a new life!
Next thing, if you can, supply yourself on your local market. Fresh local fruits and vegetables will do you no harm and you will support the community.
Last but not least, don't cook for the whole army. If you're spending your Christmas with bigger family, there is a small chance that all the food will disappear (or it can always be taken away). But when is it only you and your partner, what's the point of having 12 dishes on your Christmas dinner? No point. Try to keep it simple: a soup, one special from mum's cook book and a cake will be absolutely enough. It's all about spirit, not about having to diet after and definitely not about spending a couple of days in the kitchen.
Hm.. I wish my mum was thinking that way :)

first one
Here I start - again. I can't even count how many blogs did I start and finished writing so far. Somehow I keep coming back to creating a new one at least once a year. This particular one has no major topic or theme, it will rather be a bunch of ideas, inspirations and life-documentary kind of blog. Enjoy!




minimalism
I am really into minimalistic life style lately. I don't mean I am living minimalistic, it's just something that inspires me.
Basically, minimalism is being understood as simplifified, non-comsumptional way of living through reduced possesion and increased self-sufficiency. Right, easy to say, much harder to do. These days, when everything may be purchased ridiculously cheap, when people buy a new tv every three years and throwing away the old one, when no one really cares about the quality, minimalism is showing its face. Although there is a movement, still there are only individuals who truly, deeply follow the idea. Of course, who's got time to grow vegetables themselves while living in the city or money to buy only top quality goods when there's a sea of chinese crap everywhere? Exactly.
However, I decided to become more aware of what I am buying, buy less and only things that I need and will be serving me for years or are eco-friendly. That's the plan. It's a little early for New Year's resolutions but I can say now - minimalism will be mine.




party in the UK
There is nothing I enjoy more than a bus ride on Friday or Saturday evening. I have never experienced this before coming to the UK. All right, I'm painting a picture: it's dark outside, cold as ****, real feel temperature below 0?; I'm sitting downstairs of the bus for better view and easier access (and also I am a little scared to sit upstairs when it's late), reading a book and sometimes glancing who's boarding my bus. I am wrapped all over with my warmest clothes, a wool scarf and probably a hat or the earmuffs. And then it starts: ladies are heading to the party.
How do I know? I can't see through their outerwear.
The thing is they don't wear any. Bare legs in extremely high heels they can't even walk in, which will probably turn into bare feet on the way back, yet sober (I bet not for long), super short, sleeveless mini dresses and nothing to cover those poor, pale arms. I always wonder, how can they be so cold-resistant? (Yes, I'm jealous as I am always cold unless it's 30? outside.)
One of them particularly made me laugh yesterday: unusually wearing a cream trench coat, hair and make-up done, golden-glittery clutch and matching shoes... In her hand. A quick look on her legs: little, pink, hawaii-style flip-flops on the bare feet. The most hilarious composition I have ever seen.
Honestly, the British women are the endless inspiration. Maybe I should start to take pictures for the next generations, the potential cannot go to waste.

Goodbye 2011
You've been supercalifragilisticexpialidocious! 2011 was definitely a year of triumphs and tribulations, losses and gains, but as crazy as this will sound I am grateful for it all. It is only through living that we truly learn.


Anyway enough about me! I just wanted to wish you all the best for 2012. I hope it is a year of enjoyment and success beyond your wildest dreams.


Much love, Nana Wintour xx.




Photo by Autumn De Wilde

Marloun









We Shall Overcome
In memory of the Christians of Charleston South Carolina church massacre:




by MAHALIA JACKSON



"We Shall Overcome

We Shall Overcome

We shall overcome, we shall overcome,

We shall overcome someday;

Oh, deep in my heart, I do believe,

We shall overcome someday.

The Lord will see us through, The Lord will see us through,

The Lord will see us through someday;

Oh, deep in my heart,

I do believe,

We shall overcome someday.

We're on to victory, We're on to victory,

We're on to victory someday;

Oh, deep in my heart, I do believe,

We're on to victory someday.

We'll walk hand in hand, we'll walk hand in hand,

We'll walk hand in hand someday;

Oh, deep in my heart, I do believe,

We'll walk hand in hand someday.

We are not afraid, we are not afraid,



We are not afraid today;

Oh, deep in my heart, I do believe,

We are not afraid today.

The truth shall make us free, the truth shall make us free,

The truth shall make us free someday;

Oh, deep in my heart, I do believe,

The truth shall make us free someday.

We shall live in peace, we shall live in peace,

We shall live in peace someday;

Oh, deep in my heart, I do believe,

We shall live in peace someday."





Amano Shrimps
Than I added Yamoto or Amano Shrimps into my tank to help clean up algae and other left over foods deposited at the base of my tank....Unfortunately the Amano was attacked by unfriendly wild betta and resulted in one casualty before I decided to give away my imbellis to protect my shrimp's safety.....The many things I like about Amano are their nice bluish tinted body color which is difficult to find among many dwarf shrimp varieties (which will be added to my community tank later). Sometime it changes to slightly darkbrown and red color while occassionally appears a little greenish too. Generally speaking, it is a very hardy shrimp when kept at a difficult water temperature between 29 - 30C. They molted quite regularly after busy cleaning themselves and also helping to brush others! That goes to show they are very friendly and supportive among their own kind.

Hardy Aquatic plants
A tank without flora is like an empty stage without beautiful scenes. The followings are hardy aqua plants which I installed for my shrimps to seek rest, algae and... intimacy?1st picture - Nano plants & marima moss (algae ball)2nd picture - Java moss3rd picture - floating frogbits4th picture - Thailand java moss 

The Journey (months ago)
I started with few cardinal tettras, Ottos and imbellis wild betta in my planted tank, couple months ago, before everything starts to revolve recently that turned my betta tank into a colorful shrimps tank.

My Cherry Shrimps
 Having a conducive setup with mosses, nana plant, soil and a cooling water temperature. I decided to have my first shrimp - the cherry - known to be hardy shrimp, suitable for my low tech aquarium setup.

My Shrimps Aquarium
There is no better cheap retreat than spending a night by the side of my small planted aquarium, away from stressful day in office. In my humble nano cube dwell different species of dwarf shrimps, playing along the forest broken woods and underhill. My adventure with them has begun....


LAMB & BACON PIE  500g cubed lamb1 onion1 stalk celery1 large carrotsalt & pepper250g bacon, choppedoilpastry1.5 cups water Brown onion in oil in pan.  Add lamb.  Continue to cook until all meat changes colour.  Add rest of ingredients except pastry.  Add 1.5 cups water.  Simmer until cooked -- about 1.5 hours.  If too much liquid, either boil rapidly until reduced or thicken with cornflour.  A variety of vegetables can be used e.g. peas, parsnip, potatoes, sweet potatoes. Line pie dish with pastry, add filling, cover with pastry. Cook 1 hour (200 deg C.). ************************************ Comments?  Email me here or here.My Home Page is here or here. *********************************** 


EASY FETTUCINE  .5 teaspoon salt2 cloves garlic, chopped1 onion chopped.75 lb beef mince4 bacon rashers with rind only off2 teaspoons dried oregano2 teaspoons dried basil.75 cup tomato paste1 Oxo cube (stock cube).5 cup waterGrated Parmesan cheese Chop up bacon, garlic & onion.  Tip all ingredients into a saucepan & bring to boil.  Turn down heat & simmer for an hour or more with lid on. Serve with fettucine noodles, penne or other pasta and top with grated cheese.  NOTE:  Leave plenty of fat on bacon.   Serves 2-4. ************************************ Comments?  Email me here or here.My Home Page is here or here. ***********************************


 FRITTATA   250g (8 oz) zucchini (courgettes, Italian squash)2 rashers bacon10 stuffed olives - chopped30g (1 oz) butter1 red pepper3 shallots (scallions, chives)60g (2oz) mushrooms1/2 cup grated cheese 4 eggssalt  Grate zucchini into bowl; sprinkle with salt; stand 30 mins. Rinse zucchini under cold running water; squeeze dry with hands.  Chop bacon finely, add to dry pan and cook until crisp; remove and drain on absorbent paper.  Melt butter in same pan; add finely chopped pepper; cook 1 minute.  Add chopped shallots, sliced mushrooms, zucchini and chopped olives; cook further 1 minute, stirring constantly.  Remove from heat, pour mixture into bowl, add cheese, bacon, salt and lightly beaten eggs.  Mix well.  Pour mixture into greased 20 cm (8") pie tin. Bake in moderate oven 20 mins or until set and lightly brown on top. Serves 4.  Serve with salad  ************************************ Disclaimer:The recipes here have been collected from various sources over the years and I have lost track of where most of them came from. If anybody believes that I have "stolen" their recipe, however, I will be happy to add an acknowledgement of the original source.  To my knowledge, however, most of the recipes here do contain SOME element of originality.  The element of originality, however, comes mostly from my ex-wife Jenny rather than from myself. Comments?  Email me here or here.My Home Page is here or here. ***********************************


KOREAN PORK RISSOLES (FRIED MEATBALLS)  Also known as EGG-ROLLED PORK.  Only a few Korean restaurants serve this dish so it must be a regional specialty.  They are so good, however, that even if you make twice as many as you normally would, they will all be gone by next morning  1 pound (or half a kilo) of pork mince (ground pork)1 teaspoon salt2 cloves garlic, chopped6 tablespoons flour4 eggs6 tablespoons soy sauce.5 teaspoon pepper4 tablespoons peanut oil3 spring onions chopped (or scallions)2 tablespoons sesame seeds Combine meat with salt, pepper, soy sauce, chopped onion and garlic, peanut oil and sesame seeds.  Roll into 1 inch balls and flatten slightly.  Dust with flour and roll in beaten eggs.  Fry in hot oil for 15 mins or until well browned.Usually  served with steamed rice and Kim Chee (Korean pickled cabbage) but if you are not feeling very Asian you can substitute fresh bread-rolls  and a tossed  salad.   They do NOT deserve to be smothered with tomato sauce (ketchup) but dipping them in soy sauce is an option. ************************************ Disclaimer:The recipes here have been collected from various sources over the years and I have lost track of where most of them came from. If anybody believes that I have "stolen" their recipe, however, I will be happy to add an acknowledgement of the original source.  To my knowledge, however, most of the recipes here do contain SOME element of originality.  The element of originality, however, comes mostly from my ex-wife Jenny rather than from myself. Comments?  Email me here or here.My Home Page is here or here. *********************************** 


 GREEK EASTER LAMB WITH ORZO   Roast at  180 deg Celsius or more  A  2 kg (4lb)  leg of lamb2 cloves garlic.5 cup lemon juice.5 cup hot water1 tablespoon chopped oregano -- less if dried1 cup extra hot water2 onions choppedA 500g packet orzo (rice-shaped pasta)1 cup tomato puree or .5 cup tomato paste  Remove excess fat from lamb.  Cut small slits in surface of lamb.  Peel & slice garlic cloves and insert slices into slits.  Place lamb in roasting tin, mix lemon juice with 125 ml hot water, pour over lamb, then sprinkle with oregano.  Roast lamb in moderate oven at 180 deg C for 1 hour, basting frequently.  Add extra hot water to pan, the add onions and cook for a further 1.5 hours or until lamb is cooked to taste.  Meanwhile, bring a large pan of water to the boil, add orzo and boil rapidly for 7-8 mins or until orzo is tender.  Drain well and keep hot.  Remove lamb from roasting tin, keep warm and stand for 15 mins before carving.  Add orzo and tomato puree to sediment in roasting tin and stir in onion and pan juices.  Return to oven and bake, uncovered, for 10-15 mins or until orzo is heated through.  To serve place lamb on warm serving plate and place orzo around lamb.  Serve with Greek salad (e.g. lettuce, onion, cucumber, tomato, fetta cheese & olives) and fresh bread.  ************************************ Disclaimer:The recipes here have been collected from various sources over the years and I have lost track of where most of them came from. If anybody believes that I have "stolen" their recipe, however, I will be happy to add an acknowledgement of the original source.  To my knowledge, however, most of the recipes here do contain SOME element of originality.  The element of originality, however, comes mostly from my ex-wife Jenny rather than from myself. Comments?  Email me here or here.My Home Page is here or here. ***********************************

Introduction
This is a bookshop under construction.


The Bible in my iPhone 3g
This is how I read The Bible in my iPhone3g. Practically,I can read it every where I go.While on the bus,mrt, queueing in the grocery or bank..just everywhere. It's an awesome App! The best part is ...it's FREE!

The Butcher of Song
Yes, it's the best! It's called Jared: the Butcher of Song -- Make a response of you singing this song too. I want everyone in the world to hear this amazing song

Imeem mobile for iPhone
WooW!Finally, I can browse my imeem profile in my iPhone!Just installed it and it works out just fine...Now I can browse my fave playlists, view the Top 100,while I'm on the go.Download it now. It's FREE!Imeem mobile for iPhone

Mafia iPhone users unite!!
Here are some of my Mafia iPhone user friends.They'd be glad if you'll add them to your mob.Of,course! I will update this list from time to time so feelfree to subscribe via email.Enjoy the list and inform me for some duplicates.Mafia iPhone ids:8902 1312 509704 2813 092600 9247 973201-1951-373102-5322-930304 0307 68 820472203982047220393504 5304 58 5001 7942 767902 0057 95 7400 1074 690003 3052 329800 8451 931000 9760 563602-1224-70 8103 9188 641203 5474 839603-2783-52 3201 9452 6211011482751203307627

Mafia Wars in my iPhone
This game keeps me up all night. Hooh boy! I'm just glad it's in the iPhone. Finally, just like all my other fave iphone apps and games, I can now enjoy it wherever I go! Recruit me peepz!My iphone id: 0003 2752 65 

Opportunity for Improvement Form
Loading...

Welcome Po and Lahat ng Ideas Ninyo- YOU can make a positive difference that can make your work more fun and effective
As an employee, you are a process owner. The process, which is your job, is something that you do everyday and something that you should be very good at.If there is an expert on your process, it should be you, right? If the process is mediocre because of various internal or external factors, it is you the employee and process owner who is most affected.

For example, you are a cashier in a retail store. Your main job is to help customers pay for the goods that they are buying accurately and quickly. But what if the cash register is always off-line? Or what if the barcode is dirty, unreadable or missing? Or what if the janitor cleaning the aisle to your cash register is slacking and fails to clean it as often as he should? Or what if you dont have enough coins to give an accurate change? Certainly, you are the most affected by these factors. Wouldn't your life be more fun and less stressful if you can make suggestions on how to solve these chronic problems.

The opportunity for improvement system is a proven system where employee feedback is gathered by a central processing team which analyzes these suggestions. Suggestions can be adopted as is, modified, scheduled for future action or rejected outright. But the meaningful difference is this- you, the employee is always heard, your suggestion acknowledged and feedback is given to you. There are no right or wrong suggestions, everybody is an expert and concerned individual who deserves to be heard and thanked. Welcome po ang lahat ng suggestions.

To make the suggestion system easy, an on-line form has been created where employees can share their ideas. You will notice that the form asks not just for the problem (or opportunity for improvement) that you see, but also for your recommended action.

By: Welcome Po Operations Team

Creating Wonderful Value in Business

Tales from the Wonder Emporium: Visual and Creative Thinking in Business




View more presentations from Kelsey Ruger.



Imagination Innovation and Improvement at iAcademy
Imagination, Innovation and Improvement at iAcademy workshop focuses on empowering employees with the awareness, skills and tools to make every process, every day outstanding.

 I3 Imagination Innovation and Improvement at IAcademy   View more presentations from Remigio Joseph DeUngria  
 De Bono Six Thinking Hats Summary Anne Egros   View more presentations from Anne Egros  

Add Videos to Your Blog

There
are several ways to post a video to your blog. To get started, go to your
posting (new posting or edit an existing posting).

1. Click in your posting where
you want to insert your video.

2. Click the black and white clapboard icon on the Post Editor
toolbar.





3.
In the popup window, you'll see 4 options: 

Upload: You can browse to upload a
video from your computer.

From YouTube: You can search YouTube
and select a video to display on your blog.

My YouTube videos:If you have your
own videos under you Google Account, you can easily access and upload them
through this tab.

From your phone: If you have Google+
and Android, you can download an application that will allow all the videos
from your phone to upload instantly to your Google Account. You can then click
From your phone and select a video from your phone to publish on your blog.

4. Select one of the options, and click upload.

5. A status message below the Post Editor will show you the progress of the
video upload and there will be a placeholder icon in your post to show where
the video will appear.





6. Wait till the upload is finished before you save/update your post. Uploading
a video may take a while since videos are usually very large files.




Big Band Explosion!
Gil Fuller-James Moody & The Monterey Jazz Festival Orchestra - Night Flight Pacific Jazz ST-20101 (1966)Coming on strong like Oliver Nelson or Lalo Schifrin, this filmic sounding orchestral blow-out is so good it hurts. Sax and flute player James Moody joins Gil (real name Walter) Fuller on this lesser known Monterey Jazz Orchestra outing without Dizzy Gillespie this time, but that doesn't affect the quality one bit - inspired performances all-round.Fuller has regularly collaborated with all the greats including Ray Charles, Stan Kenton & the aforementioned and close buddy Dizzy Gillespie and is the bandleader's bandleader. He was one of the first to compose big band charts in the bebop style and later formed his own own publishing company, a natural outlet when he branched out into writing texts about his music, including an analytical discussion of his arrangement methods.Not an average batch of cover versions this, Fuller and Moody inject exciting variations into well-known tunes and the orchestra are tight and monumentally swinging. Not a dud note to be heard...01) Tin Tin Deo02) I'm In The Mood For Love03) Night Flight04) Our Man Flint05) Seesaw06) Batucada Surgiu07) 17 Mile Drive08) A Patch Of Blue09) Latin Lady10) Blues For A Debutante11) Sweets For My Sweet12) Wild Chestnutshttp://rapidshare.de/files/14031789/Gil_Fuller-James_Moody___Monterey_Jazz_Festival_Orchestra_-_Night_Flight__1966_.zip.htmlA real eye-opener coming shortly in the form of a French guitarist and jazz-scat vocalist with a secret I am soon to reveal, one that I could barely believe myself.

Bobby Cole's Point Of View
Bobby Cole - A Point Of View Concentric S-1000 (1964)This much sought after and timeless LP features 12 original compositions that show off the man's great songwriting, piano and vocal skills. He's ably accompanied here by Ralf Rost, Arnold Wise and Kathy Kelly in a totally swinging trio session, I'm sure you'll agree.Side A1) Status Quo2) The Name of the Game Is Trouble3) Lover Boy4) You Can't Build A Life On A Look5) But It's Spring6) HeatSide B1) You Could Hear A Pin Drop2) A Change of Scene3) A Perfect Day4) Elegy For Eve5) No Difference At All6) I'm Growing OldDuring his career, among his many accomplishments, he was the musical director for Judy Garland at her final Palace performance, recorded for Columbia and for years was the house band at Sinatra's legendary "watering hole", "Jilly's". It was there that he started to develop his cult following.Bobby Cole died a tragic death in a New York gutter outside of the club at which he was performing on December 19, 1997. He apparently fell, cracking his head on the curb, where he lay motionless for some time until someone finally called "911".Files are encoded @ 192Kbps.http://rapidshare.de/files/12302117/Bobby_Cole_-_Point_Of_View__1964_.zip.htmlenjoy...




House Cleaning Melbourne


Helpful Tips In Hiring A House Cleaning Melbourne Company




View the slide show




Since it generally takes, two incomes to survive in the world today, stay at home moms are becoming an extinct species. It seems that there is no time for menial house cleaning chores, with more and more women joining the work force. Nevertheless, families expect their homes to be in tip-top shape and many times the only solution to their problem is to hire an outsider such as a House Cleaning Melbourne service.




It is becoming very popular to call upon the skills of a house cleaner to help us with the daily jobs of House Cleaning Melbourne to get our homes in order. You may have a full schedule that does not offer you time for housecleaning whether you are a stay at home mom or not. It seems that many individuals are always working late or contend with a twenty-four hour work schedule!




You can have a House Cleaning Melbourne service come clean for you once or twice weekly if you cannot afford a daily house cleaning. This will provide you with time to do the daily chores such as doing the dishes and laundry, while you allow the house cleaning service to do the larger more complex chores.









School Cleaning Melbourne is different because there are hundreds of children, plus teachers, and support staff, in the building and the school cleaning crew is generally not aware of every one of the allergies that might plague these people. That is why school cleaning requires you to use as many natural products as possible.




School Cleaning Melbourne consists of cleaning the classrooms by emptying the waste paper baskets, wiping the desks, and other surfaces down to kill germs, and cleaning the floors using the appropriate supplies. It also includes cleaning the restrooms in the building, the windows in the building, and keeping the hallways clean and presentable.




If you are responsible for the cleaning of an educational facility then there are some really good reasons for you to switch to green School Cleaning Melbourne supplies. Almost every one of those reasons attends the school as a student. As the person responsible for selecting the cleansers that are used in the school you are the person that can reduce many illnesses, create a clean environment, and help protect the planet.









Hard-earned money sometimes can be difficult to apart from, with especially if you are spending on some things that may seem unnecessary with some DIY efforts, such as hiring a professional House Cleaning Melbourne service. If you are a hard-worker and dedicate immeasurable effort in earning money for your family, surely or probably you will not be left with much energy to clean and organize the house. In addition, there are actually beneficial returns in employing such services.




Most of the time, some people refuse to have visitors because they feel that the status of their homes are not suitable for visits. If a professional House Cleaning Melbourne service is hired, you will be ensured that no matter how many people visit you or take a look inside your house at whatever time, you will always have a clean home to accommodate them.




Navigate To This Web Site for getting more information related to House Cleaning Melbourne.






1795/6/7 November Moth agg. (Epirrita sp.)
1795/6/7 November Moth agg. (Epirrita sp.), a photo by Peter Maton on Flickr.After a blank yesterday I had 2 "November" Moths and a White-Shouldered House-moth this morning, following another cold night.

2370 Twin-spotted Wainscot (Archanara geminipuncta)
2370 Twin-spotted Wainscot (Archanara geminipuncta), a photo by Peter Maton on Flickr.A milder night produced 4 moths in the trap this morning: Silver Y, Large Wainscot, Angle Shades & Green-brindled Crescent. As I've just started this blog, I thought I might mention some of the new species I've seen in the garden this year. I've been trapping here since March 2000 but have had 10 new macros this year. One of these was the Twin-spotted Wainscot.



Another very mild night 14.0c resulted in 10 moths: 3 November Moths (agg.), Large Wainscot, 2 Shuttle-shaped Darts, Yellow-line Quaker, Dark Chestnut & 2 Light Brown Apple Moths. The Large Wainscot was much the smallest one I've seen-WL 18mm. Looking back to the start of the year, the 1st new macro species was Yellow Horned recorded on 23rd of February. This record was part of my best ever start to year which produced 10 species before the end of February-some years I get nothing before March.



Yellow Horned










It was very wet last night with a thunderstorm as well. I was surprised to find a moth in the trap which I think is Oak Nycteoline. I had my first one of these earlier in the year but it was a much easier specimen to identify. The wing length of the one in the picture below was 11mm. It seems to have the characteristic long palps.

Any comments welcome.






Accessibility observations part 1
This is the first of a number of posts I will be making about figuring and programming accessibility into your interactive fiction game project.

I speak not as an expert, but as a game author who has now spent a fair bit of time trying to do this. I just released a large Inform 7-programmed game (Leadlight Gamma) which I tried to make fully and explicitly accessible, so my goal here is to share what I've learned about the issues and technology involved along the way. The game is fresh so I'm still learning. In other words, I'm still getting feedback about this aspect of it from the real world.

When I say accessibility, I refer primarily to making the content of your game available to players who have various degrees of visual impairment. This is because formatting game material in a way that maximises its compatibility with screen reading software (the software that reads text aloud to a player) is something you can have a significant degree of control over as an author or programmer. Solutions to some accessibility problems are entirely beyond your control, but IF has always had this gaming strength for players with limited or no sight because the content is essentially text and the games don't depend on reflexes.

The subject of accessibility came to my attention last year when I set out to program a new, more modern menu-generating extension for Inform 7. Right now I'm trying to update it for the latest version of Inform. When I asked about people's needs and wants in such an extension, Neil Butters on the intfiction.org forum described some of the quirks of the way his screen reading software interacts with IF. I then sought to program the extension to cooperate with screen readers. In programming Leadlight Gamma, I sought to extend accessibility principles across the whole game.

This kind of accessibility work doesn't just apply to a game itself, but to related materials, too. Here is an example from the 'learning from my mistakes' department: I drew attention to my game's accessibility upon its release, but the homepage I'd built for it was not as accessible as the game, something a blind journalist quickly pointed out to me. In real terms, this means my website content did not play nice with screen-reading software.

The world of IF technology remains querulous (will this or that interpreter run my game? Will there be pictures? Will there be sound? Will things change colour when I want them to? Can I control the fonts? Will it run online? Will it run on Macs and PCs? etc etc) and I've learned that life with screen-reading software can be as querulous in general. There is no perfect software which can interpret all websites in some idealised fashion because there is infinite variety in website design, programming methods and presentation. Screen reader users have to develop habits and nouse which allow them to find the information they want when online, and some sites don't cooperate with their software at all.

In the case of the Leadlight Gamma website, I had just spent a lot of time redesigning it and my other websites using responsive technology. That is, website code which strives to produce a fluid, attractive and logically presented website on the fly, no matter how big or small or oddly proportioned a user's screen is, or whether they're using a desktop or mobile device. The Rapidweaver themes I'd invested in to get this done did not consider accessibility. My solution was to code a plain text version of the site with screen reader-friendly navigation. I put a link allowing a visitor to switch to the text version of the site at the head of the graphic version.

In a future post I will talk about presentation issues within a game. That is, what you can do to present content helpfully within an IF interpreter screen.

Something you may be interested to watch is journalist Robert Kingett's video how blind people use the web. You can see/hear a screen reader in action and look at some examples of websites which work with one and websites which don't.

2014 Firebird Trans Am Convertible
<!--
google_ad_client = "ca-pub-2782336357453463";
/* Firebird Trans Am */
google_ad_slot = "4752512716";
google_ad_width = 336;
google_ad_height = 280;
//-->





PontiacFirebirdTransAm.Com



2014
Firebird Trans Am now comes with a new display features and the highly
innovative styling models both on the interior and exterior design. The 2014 Firebird
Trans Am Convertible will debut at the Paris Auto Show. The presence of this
sports car on the market intended as a substitute for the production period
will end. The 2014 Firebird Trans Am is also a variant of a sports car that has
a number of visual cues-including what appears to be a design around the
front-end of the treatment-colleagues from the predecessor model. 2014 Pontiac
Firebird Trans Am at the time of the launch of the inaugural market will be
available in two performance packages using the Firebird Trans Am coupe and Firebird
Trans Am convertible models


2014 Firebird Trans Am Price
<!--
google_ad_client = "ca-pub-2782336357453463";
/* Firebird Trans Am */
google_ad_slot = "4752512716";
google_ad_width = 336;
google_ad_height = 280;
//-->





PontiacFirebirdTransAm.Com



2014 Pontiac
Firebird Trans Am will be priced at market price reaches the price range MSRP $
40 000 to $ 55 000. Total price also includes the cost of postage to your
destination or address of the purchaser.


2014 Pontiac Firebird Trans Am Concept,  Review, Price, Specs and Overview
<!--
google_ad_client = "ca-pub-2782336357453463";
/* Firebird Trans Am */
google_ad_slot = "4752512716";
google_ad_width = 336;
google_ad_height = 280;
//-->





PontiacFirebirdTransAm.Com



Burying the
late, great Pontiac Firebird Trans Am and resuscitating the Pontiac name is no
small task for the 2014 Firebird Trans Am. Armed with a nearly $55,000 asking
price, the new 2014 Firebird Trans Am demands equal doses of sexy-yet-discreet
styling and forward thinking hardware to uphold its desirability in the current
exotic car landscape. 


Does the new
Pontiac Firebird Trans Am flagship succeed in stoking the embers of desire? A recent
drive on rambling roads offered some insight into the Firebird Trans Am's
ability to stoke our champagne-fueled dreams.


Trickle down
styling usually works in the realm of four-wheeled exotica, and 2014 Firebird
Trans Am's new style exhibits some of the tight radius curves and hunkered down
poise inherited from its ultra-rare predecessor, the Firebird Trans Am. But the
new Pontiac Firebird Trans Am $55 000 flagship also gains a thorough mechanical
reworking that helps answer to detractors who claim the Pontiac brand is all
show and no go: while an extruded aluminum tub remains at its core, the Pontiac
Firebird Trans Am adds carbon weave structures to the nose and tail for further
weight savings and 25 percent more torsional rigidity, as well as carbon the
fiber skin all around. The official avoirdupois has yet to be announced, but
the Pontiac Firebird Trans Am's curb weight is estimated in the region of 3,750
lbs, nearly 100 lbs less than its predecessor.


The new 5.9
liter V-8 sits lower and lighter, churning more power (565 hp) while claiming the
greater fuel efficiency, thanks in part to the incorporation of variable valve
timing. Connecting to the powerplant to the 6-speed automated manual rear
transaxle is a carbon fiber prop shaft surrounded by an alloy torque tube. Firebird
Trans Am claims that 60 mph arrives in 4.1 seconds, and that the Firebird Trans
Am tops out at 183 mph. 


Inside the
cabin, a new interior treatment reveals the Firebird Trans Am-inspired stitch
patterns and details like a haptic touch surface on the center stack. The Firebird
Trans Am cockpit has been expanded for less of a cocooning effect, while the
"boot" offers 60 percent more space.


favourite things


































Yesterday, I deleted my blog. I didn't have the mood to continue it so I deleted it. So, enjoy reading!


hmm....what to write today? hmmm...I'm kinda bored today. Went to check my friendster but nothings new. School's gonna start this MAY and I don't know whether I should transfer or not. Our block seems so quiet like everything's okay.           I guess I'm kinda depress right now 'cause me and my BF almost broke up. Well, I'm the one who broke up but he said he'll wait for me. So, we ended up talkin on the phone for a long time and we were together again. I really love him so I don't want to see him go. Kyo, I really love you and I know you do too.


Well, here I am with another story of my life...hehehe...     Me and Kyo went today at the mall (SM North). We haven't gone there for a long time so we chose to go there instead of playing pRO. He wanted to see a movie but there were no good movie to watch (for me but he chose a movie w/c I forgot the title).    Anyway, we went to eat at Carl's Jr. Then we went to Quantum (arcade). I really like guns so y'all know what I play there. Then we went to the Annex to find a quiet coffee shop and we ended at the basefloor (I think it's coffee experience).   Before going home, he told me that he really want to see a movie. So, he insisted on buying a VCD (not pirated ^_^) at Oddysey (tama ba spelling?). We both chose 'The Hot Chick' because we never got to see it in the cinema.    We were actually looking for the 'So Close' movie but I think it's out-of-stock. Darn!   We went home and watched it with my mom, big sis and her BF. My brother didn't care much about it 'cause he already saw it. After that he went home and rode an FX. Friends, do not ride in this FX because something bad almost happened to my Dear.   He told me that this FX was not to be trusted because he felt that there's something suspicious. He saw that the men at the back were looking at him and so is the driver (magkasabwat yung driver at yung mga lalaki). He noticed that whenever the driver would look at the rear mirror, the men at the back would look at the driver (kinda like exchanging glances). The only passengers that Kyo knew were him (my BF) and three girls who were seated in the middle. The driver told them that he'll take the Belfast Road because Regalado is traffic. But my BF knew that it wasn't. So he texted me the FX plate number and name for insurance. He intended to let the driver see what he texted to me. Actually, the driver got suspicious that he borrowed my BF's cellphone just to check his fuel gauge if it's already full (the driver went to a local gasoline station). The driver might have read Kyo's message. Well, I ask Kyo why, he told me that it's just for insurance and for me not to worry. The driver saw that text again (my BF's beside the driver if you are wondering). The driver shook his head and instead of going to Belfast he went to Regalado w/c my BF notices. PVL-411 Joian FX Taxi, that's the plate and name of the taxi. Be careful guys, ok?


Good Morning!  I just woke up and wala lang. hehehe...I'm just checking my e-mails and boards and blah, blah, blah. See y'all later!

helooo






Purane-Shikari-new-Jaal-Laye-by-Orya-Maqbool-Jan








American Flags in Safe Hands ?


Barack Obama's popularity rating at an all time low


Obama's ratings slide


Oh My God - President?


President Obama Bending Too Much ?


Yet another Blog account?!! @____@
hmmm...lemme think.....y do I need yet another Blog acct???Weird cos I've got 4 now!! @____@- started with Friendster, which I've since 'abandon'! Shld try to close this soon!- then it was MSN Space, which I've stopped maintaining/adding new stuff;I still keep it though as there's lotsa of stuff on it.- the more current/recent Blog is my Multiply one, which I love sinceI'm able to keep my spin list for listening! It's also rather user-friendly& easy to maintain.  However, I'm still keeping this one for my exclusive kakis& personal postings...I'll continue to blog mainly on my Multiply account.Guess this (Google) Blog Spot is just a 'short term' faze for now... ;Pp

Reply 1997
"The reason why we think first love is beautiful is not because people we first loved were actually handsome or pretty. It's because we were unconditional, innocent, or a bit stupid at the time of first love. And because we know we can never go back to that young, passionate time of our days..." ~ Reply 1997

Adele Skyfall - [Synthesia] Piano Tutorial
Learn to play one of my favourites: Adele Skyfall Tutorial by synthesia 100% speed Please subscribe and ask your tutorial! Follow me on FB: https://www.facebook.com/MsPianotutor.



Arpeggios in 10ths - Left Hand Piano Style #5
Click here now! http://www.playpiano.com/101-tips/FreeLessons.htm ***For lots more good stuff on piano playing come on over to my website at http://www.playpiano.com and sign up for our free...



Blues Piano Genius James Booker Plays St James Infirmary
A genius at the piano, New Orleans blues legend James Booker. Full note for note sheet music of this legendary blues arrangement is coming soon. Stay tuned! http://bluespianosheets.com/ "Keeping...



Dark Wings Song On Piano Tutorial
Hello! Here you can see the video of Dark Wings Song on piano tutorial. By this video you can learn this song to play on piano. Watch it! Like this video.



David Guetta   Lovers On The Sun Piano Cover By Adrian Hajdin
My cover of Lovers On The Sun by David Guetta. Hope you'll like it. Enjoy. Like and Subscribe for more videos. Adrian Hajdin. David Guetta Lovers on the sun Lovers on the sun...



Green Office


Tee: 10th
Time: 12:00

Player 1:
Player 2:
Player 3:
Player 4:


Trying to understand blogs - part 2
Wow, this is an exciting adventure I am embarking upon. There are so many different templates and changes I can make to jazz up my blog. I can preview my blog before it gets uploaded, and I can give it a name and a web address. And its all so quick to do. Its only taken me a few minutes, wow.

I'm glad I had a look around this blog site, because the first template seemed so out of place for what I wrote. I just signed up for one of the ad programs that's linked to this site. I just followed the prompts, read what it told me to read and I kept going and going and going.

So now I am writing my second blog. Short and sweet I will keep them because otherwise I will get bored reading them. I've read so much fluff on the internet lately I don't want to add too much extra fluff to bog myself or other people down.

Well, I'm going to preview and publish this blog, and then close down all the windows and see if I can somehow find my blogs with the web links I created. This will be interesting...and also its lots of fun.

Trying to understand blogs - part 3
Hmm, I do have to do some more reading so that I will be able to understand all of the terminology that they use on this blog site. What is a post as opposed to a new blog, is it part of the original blog I wrote or is it something different. Hmm, I don't know. More reading, oh well.

I like the look of the things that I can add to these blogs, I can put images, links to somewhere else, and I can even put videos up on them. Cool. I don't even have to use any of my web programming skills. Its all so easily set up. The site just lays it all out for me. So therefore, all I will have to think about is the content to go into the spaces. Which is what I really want to do.

Now I am finally starting to understand why people like blogging. You get to focus on your writing and less on the nitty gritty nuts and bolts behind it all. Cool !

I suppose after I have finished writing a few, I will somehow have to get people to read them. Hmm, this will also be another interesting task to undertake. I will have to email the links to my friends and see what happens and then do some more reading about how to market my links to strangers, ahh that's right and somehow get some free search engine optimization happening.

Trying to understand blogs - part 4
I'm impressed ! Its only been a few hours after writing my first blog with 3 initial parts to it. I went out and had a lovely dinner with a few friends, now I have just checked my blogs and low and behold Ads have started to appear down the right hand side and underneath my blogs.

I chose the spots where I would like the ads to go, so that the page doesn't look too messy. I chose to have graphic and text ads. I could have chosen just the text ads, but I thought the pictures in the ads might make the pages a little more eye catching since there are not many pictures in it.

When I previewed each part of the blog, I thought they would all appear on their own pages because that's how they appeared in the 'preview'. But now they have all joined up into one page with section breaks between them. I suppose to get each blog on a new page I will have to start a new 'blog', not a new 'post'. I'm not sure but I will soon see after I experiment a little more and press more buttons to see what they all can do and can offer my blog.

I'm also wondering why my blogs are not in numerical order. I entered them all in numerical order but they appear out of sequence. I'll have to try and figure out what is going on there. Though its no big drama. Forwards I must go. Further and further into the blog'O'sphere I must go.

2014 Barracuda Photos

<!--
google_ad_client = "ca-pub-2782336357453463";
/* 336x280, created 11/10/11 */
google_ad_slot = "1509433683";
google_ad_width = 336;
google_ad_height = 280;
//-->





2014 Dodge Barracuda Photos



2014DodgeBarracuda.com




2014DodgeBarracuda.com




2014DodgeBarracuda.com




2014DodgeBarracuda.com



2014 Barracuda Photos




Chrysler has created a new concept car based on
Challenger. Check out the pictures
of what we call 2014
Dodge Barracuda
Concept images in this exclusive gallery.



2014dodgebarracuda.com




2014dodgebarracuda.com




2014dodgebarracuda.com




2014dodgebarracuda.com



2014 Barracuda Price And Pictures

<!--
google_ad_client = "ca-pub-2782336357453463";
/* 336x280, created 11/10/11 */
google_ad_slot = "1509433683";
google_ad_width = 336;
google_ad_height = 280;
//-->





2014dodgebarracuda.com



New Models
2014 Barracuda Price And Picture with full information about 2014 Barracuda
Price And Picture pictures, reviews, price and release date for US, Australia,
UK and Canada. 2014 dodge barracuda concept review | specs,price,release date,
Another new model that many automobile lovers will love will be released, 2014
dodge barracuda. the fact is classic plymouth barracudas has become one of the
most. Plymouth barracuda concept 2014 virtual tuning car picture,



2 & Some Change 6/22/11 (Is Boston THE Championship City?) Sports http://bit.ly/j5AWle http://ping.fm/oBCsh


2 & Some Change 6/22/11 (Is Boston THE Championship City?) Sports http://bit.ly/j5AWle http://ping.fm/oBCsh http://ping.fm/XrEHA


2 & Some Change 6/22/11 (Is Boston THE Championship City?) Sports http://bit.ly/j5AWle http://ping.fm/oBCsh http://... http://ping.fm/wwLxZ


2 & Some Change 6/22/11 (Is Boston THE Championship City?) Sports http://bit.ly/j5AWle http://ping.fm/oBCsh http://... http://ping.fm/TxkMm


227's YouTube Chili' Archive 2009 - Shia LaBeouf in London: Archive 2009 - Shia LaBeouf i... http://bit.ly/mDFNss 2...  http://ping.fm/LDwNS

Geen beter plek
Die Eiland is sekerlik die beste vakansie bestemming in Soud Afrika. Die oord was aanvanklik een van die Overvaal oorde, later 'n Aventura oord en is in April 2009 deur die ATKV gekoop. As jong knaap het my ouers ons aan die oord bekend gestel en vadat ek my eie gesin het probeer ons om die oord ten minste een maal per jaar te besoek, verkieslik meer. So het ek dan nou al meer as 30 jaar die genot om dan en wan my batterye in hierdie paradys te herlaai.

folllow this link to get exclusive Stratus music downloads
http://www.facebook.com/l.php?u=http%3A%2F%2Fwww.reverbnation.com%2Fartist%2Ffb_share%2Fstratusj&h=fae4f

Time for the singer Stratus to be international: folllow this link to get exclusive Stratus music d...
Time for the singer Stratus to be international: folllow this link to get exclusive Stratus music d...: "http://www.facebook.com/l.php?u=http%3A%2F%2Fwww.reverbnation.com%2Fartist%2Ffb_share%2Fstratusj&h=fae4f"

Happy Thoughts Riddim Mix
http://www.youtube.com/watch?feature=player_detailpage&v=8XtFs4Vt6OQ

Wonderful Quilts: Blog Under Construction




This blog is under construction. My mother gave me and my brother a number of wonderful quilts for us to hang. In return I'm going to set up a nice blog and eventually attach it to my website. Enjoy!

























































20 mins of gameboy music up
In the picture, from left to right:"The 4th Amigo", "Palbert", "Pampo", "Secret Handshake", unnamed, "Rainbow" and unnamed.By "popular demand" (well, one request)! Head over to http://www.milkcrate.com.au/_other/gb-mp3s/ to listen to some more crappy gameboy riffs- keep in mind they are all just ideas or something- not really finished things...The file names mean the following:gb-00x.mp3: made with lsdj 3.3.39recorded using one of my old grey gameboys called "Secret Handshake".(gb-005 was recorded using the old greys "Secret Handshake" and "Pampo" in sync).gba-00x.mp3: nanoloop 2.0.1recorded using my as-yet-unnamed silver gameboy advance sp.gbc-00x.mp3: nanoloop 1.3brecorded using one of my gameboy colors called "Rainbow".I would recommend the following files: gb-002.mp3, gb-003 and gba-002. Give the longer tracks some time before stopping them...

49 toggle usb array...
It is possible to intepret signals from a standard, non-analog (and therefore significantly cheaper) usb-based gamepad and use a 49 toggle array as an interface. Of course, if an analog one is used, up to 64 toggles can be used.The downside is that the array will produce blindspots if interpreted 'blindly'. In the image below, the three red points represent physical connections made in the array. The grey one is a 'phantom' blindspot- if the three red connections are made, the fourth will also be made automatically... the points are not independent as such, but are created by cross referencing two of the button on the pad. This method is similar to the Atari 2600 CX-50 keypad controller- where a matrix of three by four pins is used to get twelve inputs- and similar devices.Clever programming on a case-by-case basis of use might be able to overcome some instances of this.This system could perhaps be a cheap way to combine music and certain board games. But before I have a concrete idea, I am not going to venture down this thorny path...

Arcobalena live at the Salisbury Heights Wedding Expo
The string trio of which I am a part of, Arcobalena, will be playing at the upcoming wedding expo at 1955 Main North Rd, Salisbury Heights, from 11am onwards this Sunday (April 2nd).

Atari 2600 "keypad matrixer"
This morning I made a "keypad matrixer" for Atari 2600. Basically, it is like the circuit for the Atari keypad without the keys. It has two 12 pin headers, to connect whatever you want.Why would I do such a thing? Well, Paul Slocum's Synthcart program uses the keypads as a controller for calling beats and changing the pitch of the two voices... with this thing, it will be easier just  to try out an idea for controlling the Synthcart. Tilts, lights buttons, toggles etc etc. I have two copies of the Synthcart.

Drowning Goldfish live at the Duke of York
Last night, Drowning Goldfish played live with Blix at the Duke of York. The night went okay- but there was a fair amount of driving before hand (we had to drive up to Brent's place to pick up the amps and help him load all the other stuff into the car).We haven't played live in a very long time, so playing at such a low-key venue was a good thing. Besides the detuned guitars and faster-than-usual tempos (which are both 'Goldfish standards), we played okay, all things considered. Special thanks to Simon Basey (and Blix) for having us there, and to Kyri for mixing us.Our setlist consisted of the following tracks: Time, Pinebox, Cancer, Back to You, Unsure, Sabotage, Saturn's Tears, Perseverance and Bitterheart.You can download a version of Bitterheart here (mp3, 6.6mb). It's a long song, but it is my favourite song of ours... so go listen! And listen at least once before you delete it...

Happy Thanksgiving
Happy Thanksgiving everyone! What are you giving thanks for today? Me? I'm giving thanks for my wonderful children and husband, my family, a good job, health and everything else we've accomplished since moving back to Singapore three years ago.

Thanksgiving is usually not celebrated in Singapore but we still do it because I believe my half American children should not forget their roots, culture and such.

So I took the day off and spent the day cooking. The kids and I went to Parkway and wanted to buy an apple pie for Thanksgiving dinner but couldn't find one...so we ended up buying the ingredients to make apple crumble instead. 

We didn't roast a turkey this year because we actually don't quite fancy turkey meat. We find it too dry and just not tasty....so we roasted a huge chicken this year. We had chicken, mashed potatoes with gravy, cranberry sauce, corn, beans, apple crumble and ice-cream! We were stuffed by the time we got done with dinner!

Heavy-Duty Universal Car Mount Holder for Cellphone, MP3 Player, iPhone, iPod Touch, BlackBerry, Droid, GPS Garmin, TomTom, Magellan
List Price: $24.99   Price: $6.05                                     & eligible for FREE Super Saver Shipping on orders over $25.    Details    You Save: $18.94         (76%)               In Stock.Sold by Charger City and Fulfilled by Amazon.                 Only 6 left in stock--order soon.    Want it delivered Tuesday, September 13?                     Order it in the next 20 hours and 46 minutes, and choose One-Day Shipping at checkout.    Details      11 new from $2.20 2 used from $15.00 

Heroes of Olympus, The, Book Two: The Son of Neptune [Hardcover]
       List Price: $19.99   Price: $10.75                             Free Standard Shipping (3-5 days) Details    You Save: $9.24         (46%)          Special Offers Available         Pre-order Price Guarantee. Learn more.          This title will be released on October 4, 2011.Pre-order now!Ships from and sold by Amazon.com. Gift-wrap available. 

HP ProBook 4530s XU015UT 15.6" LED Notebook (2.1 GHz Intel Core i3-2310M Dual-Core Processor, 4 GB RAM, 320 GB Hard Drive, DVD+/-RW SuperMulti DL Ligh
List Price: $579.00   Price: $480.14                                     & this item ships for FREE with Super Saver Shipping.    Details    You Save: $98.86         (17%)              In Stock.Sold by Fatech International, LLC and Fulfilled by Amazon.           Gift-wrap available.      Want it delivered Thursday, September 15?              Order it in the next 15 hours and 3 minutes, and choose One-Day Shipping at checkout.    Details      31 new from $469.00 1 used from $459.99 

Inheritance (The Inheritance Cycle) [Hardcover]
List Price: $27.99   Price: $13.98                                     & eligible for FREE Super Saver Shipping on orders over $25.    Details                        You Save: $14.01         (50%)              Pre-order Price Guarantee. Learn more.          This title will be released on November 8, 2011.Pre-order now!Ships from and sold by Amazon.com. Gift-wrap available.     

My name :)
Hellooo !
SO ... This is my first post in my blog ! I bet no one will look at my blog that's why i created one ! I'm a girl that experienced a lot in life , and I wonder if i post it in a blog to motivate those in need!
Hi! My name Celeste Neo Cui Ting :) . In primary school , my guy friends will always mock at my surname . Because its ' Neo ' , it sound like cow in Chinese :(
And my name 'Celeste' has always been mocked at . They would always say 'Celeste the molest'.
And they would say like : Don't go near to her , she will molest people :S
Soo .. If you are reading my blog , and your name has always been mocked . Don't worry ! The reason why so many people mocked your name because they are jealous of your name :) Think things at the positive and brighter sight ! At my age , 13 , my name is still being mocked at !

Quote of the day :)



Sometimes in life , we have to scream out loud if we are stress or feeling down . It's okay to scream it out , better than having every troubles bottled inside yourself .
And sometimes , we have to throw our hand up in the air , to enjoy the happy moments in life :)

Took the picture from Google .

Retribution .
So do you guys believe in retribution ?

Well , i do . I believe in karma .

I believe that whatever bad/evil thing you do, you will suffer from retribution . Like falling down , being left out , etc .

If you do something kind , when you need help , someone will be there to help you :)

Do comment for your point of view :D

Here's a quote for kindness :


*Took the picture from Google .



3 desperately ill men met with their doctor one day to

discuss their options. One was a drunk, one was a chain
smoker, and one was homosexual.
The doctor, addressing all three of them, said, "If any of you
indulge in your vices one more time, you will surely die."
The men left the doctor's office, each convinced that he would
never again indulge himself in his vice.
While walking toward the subway for their return trip to the
suburbs, they passed a bar. The alcoholic, hearing the loud
music and seeing the lights, could not stop himself. His buddies
accompanied him into the bar, where he had a shot of
whiskey. No sooner had he replaced the shot glass on the bar,
he fell off his stool, stone cold dead.
His companions, somewhat shaken, left the bar, realizing how
seriously they must take the doctor's words. As they walked
along, they came upon a cigarette butt lying on the ground,
still burning.
The homosexual looked at the chain smoker and said, "If you
bend over to pick that up, we're both dead!"}




A 90 year old man, who married an 18 year old young girl,

went to see a doctor:

OLD MAN: My 18 year wife is pregnant, your opinion doctor?

DOCTOR: OK. Let me tell you a story. A hunter in a hurry, grabs

an umbrella instead of a gun. He moves into the jungle, sees a

lion, lifts the umbrella, pulls the handle & BANG! The lion drops

dead!

OLD MAN: That's impossible, someone else must have shot the

lion.

DOCTOR: There goes the answer to your question.




The Three Bad Men Three desperately ill men met with their doctor one day to discuss their options. One was an alcoholic, one was a chain smoker, and one was a homosexual. The doctor, addressing all three of them, said, "If any of you indulge in your vices one more time, you will surely die." The men left the doctor's office, each convinced that he would never again indulge himself in his vice. While walking toward the subway for their return trip to the suburbs, they passed a bar. The alcoholic, hearing the loud music and seeing the lights, could not stop himself. His buddies accompanied him into the bar, where he had a shot of whiskey. No sooner had he replaced the shot glass on the bar, he fell off his stool, stone cold dead. His companions, somewhat shaken, left the bar, realizing how seriously they must take the doctor's words. As they walked along, they came upon a cigarette butt lying on the ground, still burning. The homosexual looked at the chain smoker and said, "If you bend over to pick that up, we're both dead!" 


The Three Bad Men Three desperately ill men met with their doctor one day to discuss their options. One was an alcoholic, one was a chain smoker, and one was a homosexual. The doctor, addressing all three of them, said, "If any of you indulge in your vices one more time, you will surely die." The men left the doctor's office, each convinced that he would never again indulge himself in his vice. While walking toward the subway for their return trip to the suburbs, they passed a bar. The alcoholic, hearing the loud music and seeing the lights, could not stop himself. His buddies accompanied him into the bar, where he had a shot of whiskey. No sooner had he replaced the shot glass on the bar, he fell off his stool, stone cold dead. His companions, somewhat shaken, left the bar, realizing how seriously they must take the doctor's words. As they walked along, they came upon a cigarette butt lying on the ground, still burning. The homosexual looked at the chain smoker and said, "If you bend over to pick that up, we're both dead!" 


The Three Bad Men Three desperately ill men met with their doctor one day to discuss their options. One was an alcoholic, one was a chain smoker, and one was a homosexual. The doctor, addressing all three of them, said, "If any of you indulge in your vices one more time, you will surely die." The men left the doctor's office, each convinced that he would never again indulge himself in his vice. While walking toward the subway for their return trip to the suburbs, they passed a bar. The alcoholic, hearing the loud music and seeing the lights, could not stop himself. His buddies accompanied him into the bar, where he had a shot of whiskey. No sooner had he replaced the shot glass on the bar, he fell off his stool, stone cold dead. His companions, somewhat shaken, left the bar, realizing how seriously they must take the doctor's words. As they walked along, they came upon a cigarette butt lying on the ground, still burning. The homosexual looked at the chain smoker and said, "If you bend over to pick that up, we're both dead!" 


Where we are living
A view of our front gate.Brian is feeling heaps better - thank god. It wasn't nice seeing him feeling so disgusting. I was needing me ole mate to be buzzing not groaning. We got dropped off at the apartment - whcih has all the basic food items to make a cuppa, toast, jam white butter?, juice, eggs etc and heaps of bottles of water - we can't dring the tap water. I'm very happy we bought over a couple of jars of vegemite. We have not been to the supermarket - no one came to pick us up yesterday to take us there - probably because they knew Brian was unwell. We have no local currency so can't really venture out too far yet. That should all get sorted to day - I am being picked up soon - will be wearing my orange skirt!!, to be shown the ropes. Brain will be entertaining himself here until I get back hopefully with some money.We went out last night for a stroll down to the closest roundabout! to try and get our bearings. It was very warm even at 7.00 at night. It felt very exciting to be here I must say - so different. They drive like maniacs - I am expected to be driving myself within the month!! - there is a lot to get used to - the streets are wide and they all just drive fast and don'yt indicate - AND on the other side of the road. The place looks like a construction site - new buildings being built everywhere. They are all sandstone colour - so unlike NZ. Great big stone places with fancy bits on them. Our apartment has a very high stud. I'll take a photo today and send it.It gets dark here around 6.00pm but sun is up now at 5.00 in the morning. I went to bed last night at 8.00 bloody exhausted hoping to sleep through to the morning - I woke at 11.00, then 1.00, then 3.30 at whcih point I decided to get up and have a cup of green tea and check out the computer for emails etc.Must go and cook myself an egg for breakfast - I can't eat in public today as it is the month of Ranadan - no one eats between dawn - dusk not even water!! Brain can't smoke in public. I am going to be starving by the afternoon.

Fresh off the plane
We arrived - it took 24 hours from the time we left Auck to landing at Doha - the flight for me wasn't as bad as I was thinking it was going to be.  Brian was not well though, he left Auck with the flu and ended up with a bad  headache and vomintting.  In fact he is still lying in bed - There were some loud screaming babies on the flight as well - bloody unpleasant at times.I am dog tied but have been told it's best to stay up and then go to bed at Qatari time - I have been sitting trying to read a book but wanted to doze off so thougfht I would send you an update. I am being picked up at 7.00 in the morning tomorrow to be taken into the Cognition office and shown around!!Haven't been out yet - waiting for Brian to improve - hopefully tomorrow. Have been unpacking  - boy I bought over a lot of clothes. Our baggage was spot on - 61kg - we were allowed 60!Our apartment is not too bad - certainly not luxury but comfortable with all the things we need.

Inside our apartment
The front door opens straight into the lounge/dining area - openplan. We are on the second floor - one of 12. The walls are thick plastered concrete blocks and the floor is patterened tiles.We had to put our touch of kiwiana up straight away - thank you to Fiona and the Team Solutions crew. We don't have a dishwasher - actually the bench looks a tad messy - no where to hide the dirty dishes!We are happy with our tiny tiny outside 'courtyard'. Brian has his own smoking room - thats his smoking chair!!. There is a plant in one corner that I am trying to revive - a yukka. Note the high wall - over that wall is an unpleasant looking construction site with many hens and roosters running around crowing at odd times. That rack is how I dry my clothes. We went up onto the roof - it's quite a cool place with a view across the other places around. Very hot, dusty and sandy during the day - must check it out at night.There are cockroaches!! - we saw a number of dead ones in the rubbish bin when we arrived - YUCK. Luckily there have not been any live ones so far - fingers crossed, as you know I hate them.We have 2 bedrooms and 2 bathrooms and would welcome any visitors.

More apartment living
As you can see Brian has assumed his usual pose - Sudoku in hand.  Brian has also set up the sound system, now that our carton has arrived safely. It only took a couple of hours for it to clear customs - mind you there was a lot of paper shuffling going on by the clearing clerks whom we had to pay an extra $60 - I did managed to haggle him down from his original price.

More mall shots
A couple from our apartment took us out to this newly opened mall called Villagio. Man what a place. It is designed around a waterway that is made to resemble a Venetian village - complete with gondolas that you are able to hire for a wee excursion! The facades of the upper stories of the shops also looked like a village street scene. The ceiling has a cloud theme! Quite impressive.All the big name shops and the very expensive shops are here. Brian called into the Virgin Megastore but was less than impressed - saying it was 'rubbish' - and "very thinly stocked".Not many people here at this end - the very exclusive end. We were also early - the place opened at 10.00am until 1.00pm - because of Ramadan. They open again around 7.00pm.Ramadan has now finished so we are able to eat out during the day.

vitabu bomba


Chinese?  Please!
I'm a big fan of Chinese food.  Well, all food to be exact.  I convinced some of my coworkers to go out for lunch on Monday, eventually we decided on one of our local Chinese places.  Stephanie's hatred of most food, including egg rolls and crab rangoon tends to benefit my waist line, as I am truly addicted to fried crab goo (and doughnuts, but that is a completely different story).  After denying myself that wonderful fried food (except the crab) the last few times I have had Chinese, I decided to treat myself to some yummy orange chicken.  As everyone knows, most Chinese places have their "off" days.  And this was one of them. The breading on my chicken was somewhat chewy and it just tasted funny.  Chalking it up to being an off day, I didn't complain.  I just filled up on rice and Stephanie's crab.  Not being one of those people who can toss out uneaten food, I boxed it up to eat for dinner or lunch the next day.  So today, as I'm sitting at my desk with Hell's Kitchen playing on my computer and leftovers in front of me, I truly examine my chicken for the first time.  It's better after the sauce has fully soaked into the breading.  But it still tastes funny, and it's not white like chicken should be.  After testing a few more pieces and actually cutting them open to investigate further, I discovered that I was not eating orange chicken at all.  I was eating orange pork! I'm all about pork, usually I really enjoy it.  But Chinese places like this one, are notorious for having the fattiest pork that ever waddled across the farm.  And for the record, pig fat does not taste good with orange sauce.  If I could, I would march into the bathroom and toss my pork flavored cookies.  But I can't, and I certainly wouldn't want to do it at work either.  I would love to sit here and tell you that I will never go back to that place again, but odds are, I will.  I will just examine my meat a little more closely from now on. I knew I should have gone with the cashew chicken instead.

It's Official
I'm a blogger.  Crap.  I never thought I would see this day.  Yes, that's right.  The girl who once ran from anything looking like commitment, just committed to writing and posting a blog for anyone to read.  Is my head on straight?  Or have my two weeks of insomnia completely fried my brain?  Or perhaps this is just some sad attempt to clear my mind before attempting to sleep.  Knowing my luck, this will just be one more thing to think about instead of sleeping.  What will my next blog be about???  Sleep, exit stage left.  Enter, crabby k, center stage.  And for the record, no one likes crabby k, least of all me.  Although Eric gets credit for agreeing to go out with crabby k in an effort to cheer her up.  Not many people are that brave.  I guess that's what you get from the fine men in blue.  And a special thanks to all those fine men and women in blue... Thank you for not giving me any tickets for the three months my plates were expired.  I really appreciate it.

My First Ride
All this warm spring weather makes me want to ride... Ever since I was a child I have wanted a bike, in fact I can't remember ever not wanting one.  Which is surprising since no one in my family had one at the time.  It was just always something I had said I wanted.  By the time I learned that money didn't magically reproduce in Mom and Dad's wallet, I knew that I wanted my bike to be a Harley.  Riding in the back of Dad's '34 Ford Roadster, I would check out every single Harley that drove by.  As I got older, I realized that the bikers sometimes thought I was checking them out.  And to be fair, I was, to some degree.  But it was the bike I was interested in.My Uncle got a Fat Boy for his 50th birthday, and for some reason I didn't want to be a burden to him, so I didn't ask for a ride.  Not quite understanding that a biker will generally look for any excuse to ride.  When my sister meet her now husband, I was thrilled to find out that he had a bike.  But it wasn't a Harley, so I found myself debating with him, over which bike was better every chance I got.  Eventually I got a ride out of the deal.  Well, showing off for his future sister in law attracted a cop, cutting our ride short.  Providing a story for years to come on how I got him out of five tickets.  That was our one and only ride.Somehow, my Dad got a minibike and he let me drive it.  Big mistake.  I almost made it to the neighbors driveway before falling over.  Not for one second did I have control over that bike.  Being a firm believer in getting back in the saddle, I figured I just needed a bigger horse.  However, the childhood confidence that I was born to ride was shattered.  I didn't tell anyone though, because the moment I voiced my new fear, it would be real. Just before Mother's Day, my Father found an excuse to get his own Softtail Custom.  I got the first ride.  It was heaven on earth.  The itch that had been there since I was a child was digging in deep, especially since I had fallen in love with a Sportster 883 Low.  I had put my name on the list for the Riders Edge course and I could hardly wait to begin, but I couldn't help thinking that I might not pass.  I might forever be a back seat rider, so on my birthday I wished for my own bike to ride, and the ability to ride it.It's easy to forget about fears when you are sitting there picking out new pipes for the bike you just declared as yours.  I don't think you could have slapped the smile off of my face that day.  The next week was the hardest, waiting for the bike to come home.  Even though I still didn't know how to ride, if the bike were home I could at least sit on it.  The day it was ready, my Dad got to be the first to drive it, and when some guy shouted out "nice bike" I wanted to stick my head out the window and shout that it was mine.  But there was no need to admit to the rest of the world that I don't know how to ride my very own brand new Harley.  I was too scared and nervous the first night to ride it.  So I waited, after all, what's one more day?  I was content to sit, listen to the rumble and smile for the camera phones.  Knowing this is a hurtle I must eventually jump, (otherwise this was an incredibly expensive paper weight) I chose the next day to ride.Dad and I took the bike to the nearest high school and practiced in the parking lot.  I tried rolling it to find my balance, but the hills weren't steep enough to get the right speed.  Remembering the mini bike incident, I strapped on my helmet, started her up, took a deep breath and drove off.  Incident free, I circled the lot at least a dozen times.  The next free evening I had, we went straight to the park to practice roads, turns and third gear.  Dad followed in my car as I cautiously took turns and tried to relax my shoulders.  But going 15 miles an hour on the straights and 5 on the turns with my shoulders hunched up to my ears was no way to ride.  Thankfully a cancellation on the hottest weekend of the year allowed me to get into the Riders Edge class sooner then later. The group I was in was very green.  My laps in the parking lot, and slow drive through the park made me the most experienced rider.  The class gave me the basics I needed to ride and a sunburn on the bottom of my chin from the reflective surface of the parking lot.  Knowing I could do a small figure eight without falling over built up my confidence, but the hundred degree weather still didn't distract me from my nerves when it was time to take the test.  Did I mention I was a bad test taker?  Thankfully I was one of the two in the class to pass the course.  But taking it to the road was another thing.I didn't want to do it, I wanted to go back to the safety of the parking lot.  I needed Dad's encouragement to advance to the next level.  He practically forced me to go for a ride with him.  I believe the direct quote was, "Wanna go for a ride?"  I couldn't admit my fear to Dad, so I had no choice but to say yes.  After a pit stop at Hallmark (yes that's right, Hallmark, the perfect place for two doo-raged, fingerless gloved bikers) we traveled the back roads with the most curves and hills.  After I was able to relax my shoulders enough to really experience the ride, I was in heaven.  Heaven on wheels.  Aside from the tangles I later had to rip out of my hair, I loved every min of it.

One of Those Weeks, in a nutshell.
Day 1I have no idea what I was thinking when I got ready this morning. I must have still been asleep until about 15 minuets ago. I put on a little black sweater shrug thing over a short sleeved shirt, but that's not the odd part. Then I sat there and debated which brown shoes to wear. I decided to go with the dark brown snake skin over the light brown suede. What's worse, I even had to move the classic black pumps to get to the brown. As I'm walking out the door, I think I should take a jacket since it is only 35 degrees outside. Well, my black one is dirty and a little too thin for this chilly morning. So I figured I would just wear the one I have in the car, which is brown. I kid you not, I had to debate that for a moment because the brown wouldn't go with the black shrug. Apparently, I had completely forgotten about my BROWN shoes. To make matters worse, the brown coat left white fuzz all over the black shrug. I swear I'm normally better at dressing myself then this.Day 2As I'm sitting here at my desk, wearing my second choice footwear, I'm left wondering why Koby always goes for the black shoes, the same ones I didn't wear yesterday. I have two pairs of black casual dress shoes that are not designated for a certain season. Simple black pumps, and a slightly more fancy sling. These are literally the only "plain" black heels I own. I used to have a cute little pair of black kitten heels, but a little puppy ate the inside out of those, and they haven't been fixed yet. So the slings are the ones I am wearing today, which have some nice gouges in the heel from that little fur ball we call a dog. Which is also why they were the second choice. The black pumps I was going to wear today took a detour to the trash. These poor shoes have been through so much in their little sample shoe lives.Before Koby was even born, Sheeba decided to scratch out what tiny bit of cushion there was and then convinced Charlie that the whole shoe was a toy. Charlie has only chewed on one shoe when he was still a puppy, and this self punishing dog saw how upset I was and never chewed on a shoe again. In fact I only know it was in Charlie's mouth this time because Mason caught him. But at this point in time, Mason and I were never at the house at the same time. So when I got home and saw the shoe, I investigated and found scratch marks and teeth marks way to small for my 120 pound dog to make. Sheeba was then in trouble with me, and Charlie once again put himself in time out. I went without these pumps for some time, and was unable to find black pumps I liked enough to replace them. So I bought some insoles instead. Once Koby entered our lives and I caught him sniffing around those pointed heels, I made sure to put every single pair of shoes in the closet. This morning the little snot ignored the two pairs of brown heels I had left laying out, and figured out how to get in the closed closet so he could run off with my black pump. The heel is mangled, the side is scratched, and the toe is chewed through, beyond repair. (sniff)Day 3Mason's birthday is today, and since he has to spend all of it at work and school, I made him breakfast in bed. I let Koby outside while I was making it so he wouldn't make to much noise and wake up Mason. Now you know, something is bound to happen, why else would I be telling you all this? Just as we are finishing our wonderful blueberry apple pancakes, the doorbell rings. And there is our neighbor holding our little puppy in her arms. Since Koby can no longer fit through the fence and Sheeba taught him how to dig, he put two and two together and dig under two fences just so he could go play with the Huskies next door. Because of Charlie, Koby doesn't know that big dogs can eat him in two bites. Especially those sweet ferocious Huskies, who happen to think that Koby is a rather large squirrel. In an effort to defend himself, Koby caused one of the Huskies to yelp, which sent Angie the neighbor to investigate. Koby forced poor Angie to walk outside in her robe to deliver a mud covered puppy to us at 6:30 in the morning. And even though their dogs helped Koby dig the hole, I'm pretty sure I owe them some cookies.Day 4Since my attempt to wear my black shrug on Monday bombed so badly that I took it off after an hour, I decided to try it again. Only this time, with new black shoes. Normally I make it a point to not wear things twice in two weeks, especially not twice in one week. But I figured that since the one person who would notice was working from home today, that I would be okay. So I grabbed a shirt, threw myself together and ran out the door. Half way to work, I realize that I'm pretty sure that I wore this EXACT same outfit on Monday, except the shoes. How sad is that? And to make matters worse, the security tag is still in the sweater. I can never find any scissors when I'm getting ready in the morning. I'm really kinda worried about what tomorrow will bring.Day 5Except for the fact that I had to help Mason get dressed this morning (since he hurt his back last night and could hardly move), it was fairly mild. No mangled shoes, no half eaten puppies, and a fresh outfit. Seriously, the highlight of my morning was trying to put Mason's shoes on his feet without untying the laces. Well that, and trying to dry off Koby with the hair dryer. Which is officially one of his favorite toys, I turn it on and he comes running. I'm confident that he will one day catch that blowing air and claim his rightful place as top dog. As for the weekend, I'm still hoping that Mason's back will feel better so we can go on the Katy Trail as planned.

Sticking To It
So a friend of mine "encouraged" me sign a contract with her to workout more on stickk.com. If I don't work out at least 3 times a week, I owe her money and visa versa. No offense Tami, but I really hope you fail, I could use that extra cash for my Wii addiction. And if it's my money, I can buy the dumb oh-so-fun games like American Idol and Dance Fever, instead of the annoying shooter games Mason seems to enjoy so much that I don't even get to play Wii until he has beat the game. Or, I could just blow it all on shoes and pajama pants. On the other hand, I really don't want you to fail. And since we no longer live near each other, and can't workout together, this is the next best thing.Anyway, last week I chose to box for my workout. True it was only Wii boxing, but I get really into it. After the first knock out I had to go change into shorts. Not only did it make me incredibly sore, but I raised my score considerably. However (here is where I get mad), on my last match I didn't get a KO. I won the match in the 3rd round, you would think my score would go up by a smaller amount, but no. It actually went down 4 points! So on Monday I started boxing again, anxious to bring my score back up I got a KO in round 2. Imagine my surprise when my score when down another 4 points! With no explanation, no reasoning, nothing. I'm pretty sure the game is rigged so that my score isn't higher then Mason's. Needless to say, I haven't boxed since. I've focused my workouts in other areas. On the plus side, I'm getting the Wii Fit for my birthday. Although, I'm making it harder to forget about it by telling everyone.I think my next goal on stickk.com should be to eat healthier. Because so far today, I've had only crap. Wonderful sugary crap. For breakfast, I tested one of the blueberry cheesecake cups that I will be serving this afternoon, puppy chow when I got to work (that wonderful powdered sugar covered, chocolate dipped cereal) that was left over from Stephanie's trivia team from yesterday, and a krispy kreme doughnut in my last meeting (thanks a lot HP Reps). Add to that the fact that I have a baby shower this afternoon where I will more then likely eat another blueberry cheesecake cup, as well as other equally bad for me foods. And although I did not eat this bad yesterday, I still didn't eat good. Might as well just pull out the chocolate doughnuts and a glass of milk for dinner, today is already shot.













What If Aliens Really Exist?


What If No World Wars Happened?


What If We Really Don't Exist?


What If You Did? What If You Did?


http://www.perfectapp.biz/?refid=dd681026


The Perfect Application:http://www.perfectapp.biz/?refid=dd681026


The Perfect Application:http://www.perfectapp.biz/?refid=dd681026


The Perfect Application:http://www.perfectapp.biz/?refid=dd681026


The Perfect Application:http://www.perfectapp.biz/?refid=dd681026




COMING SOON!





For Inquiries: bimtrac.consulting@gmail.com


Adriana Lima Topless - DT Magazine Cover (February 2009)
Adriana Lima - DT Magazine Cover (February 2009)

Alesha Dixon Get Legs And Breasts - NRJ Music Awards 2009
Alesha Dixon, turned heads in yellow chiffon short outfit at the NRJ Music Awards 2009  Cannes, France, January 17Alesha, gave awesome view of her juicy breasts and meaty legs.           

Alessandra Ambrosio In Bikini At St. Barts
Alessandra Ambrosio, showed her body in bikini while relaxing in the sun with some friends at St. Barts, January 22              

Alessandra Ambrosio in bikini on a beach Saint-Barthelemy
Alessandra Ambrosio, again snapped out showing her body in tiny bikini on a beach in Saint-Barthelemy, January 22                             

Alessandra Ambrosio - "Russell James" Portrait Book Release Party
Alessandra Ambrosio, looked perfect in white off shoulder knee length outfit as she came to attend the "Russell James" Portrait Book Release Party in New York City, January 28         

Rosewood Pointe Towers Seen from Royal Palm
 This will be my perspective from now on. I just got into the 2nd tower above this month. And before me are turn over issues, color decisions, furniture choices and the whole lot. Let me take you on a journey from empty condo unit to furnished and then condo living in the Philippines - specially in Taguig city - the fastest rising Central Business District in Manila, Philippines. 

1. Flounder

I am going to be as objective and literal as I can be now.



It is impossible to come to terms with/wrap one's mind around life's twisted ways. And by "ways", I don't mean decisional crossroads or meandering paths in our mind's eye. I mean "ways" as in the universe's scheme to sabotage what was, at some point in time:

a) Pleasing
b) Yours/Mine
c) Faultless

That being said, life never leaves you devastated for too long to bear.




2. Minute Bizarre 
Today
I glimpsed an unmistakeable moment
A fracture of a second
When the green and the red of a traffic light both came on

All at once.

5. A good girl with bad habits








How a habit arises:

Cue > Routine (ie. habit) > Reward



How to kick a habit:

Identify the cue

Replace routine with a more beneficial practice (ie. better habit)

Obtain same or better reward





6. Operation Declutter





Cleaned out everything within reach today - my desktop, room, wardrobe - everything.

It is different this time






cast away in colibra
A short boat ride from Tambobong (just about 20-22 minutes) is a small island called Colibra Island. Its also called "Snake Island" by some because of the sizable population of sea snakes there (we found none, our guide said its best to do sea snake hunting at night).  See large version panorama here.

Its such a small island I can't even see it in Google Earth, but its a very nice place to get marooned in (at least for the day).  The northwest side of the island is the best place for swimming and sunbathing. Be prepared for a good tan since the island offers very little shade.
We got the whole island for ourselves that day. The sky was amazingly blue and the wind a bit chilly (Colibra is in South China sea).
All sides of the island offer scenic views. Colibra is a must-visit if you happen to wander around the vicinity of Tambobong.

More photos in my Flickriver

christmas lights of policarpio
Every year, during the Christmas season, houses in a small street called Policarpio in Boni, Mandaluyong City (PH) are transformed into these magnificent eye candies as they are adorned with the most extravagant light decorations. Its been a tradition for several years now and people flock there to watch the lights.Its a lot less lights this year, maybe the owners are becoming energy conscious, you know that "save Mother Earth" and "global warming" thing. It could also be a "save my bank account" thing. Can you imagine the electric bill of this house?Happy holidays! And may the coming year be brighter than these lights.

the fishing village (tambobong, dasol)
I had the chance to "wander" again last weekend. Using GoogleEarth and blogs of other wanderers we seek out this picturesque fishing village tucked away in the south western part of Pangasinan (famous for its Hundred Islands). My friends and I do not really fancy well established resorts. So this small barangay called Tambobong (in Dasol) is paradise. We arrived there before sunset, just in time for the sun's warm glow.Tambobong is detached from the rest of the world by 18.2 km of rough road (and about 300 km of paved highway from Metro Manila). Since there were no resorts there (not really, but there are no established ones that can accommodate a large group, we passed by one with only 2 bedrooms) we have to camp on the beach. I befriended one of the locals (named Rommel) who graciously offered us space in front of his house.The beach front is amazingly clean, maybe because there are no tourists there!Tambobong is conveniently facing the southwest so you get beautiful sunsets every day.The place embodies the very essence of the word serenity as dusk falls. No parties, no blaring karaoke or dance music, no glaring lights. All you can hear is the gentle sound of the waves.It was very cold during the two nights that we camped there.  My Protrek registered a low of 22 degrees Celsius (We had this freaky chilly weather last weekend. Philippine's weather bureau PAGASA officially measured the lowest at 19)More photos in my Flickriver

to blog or not to blog
I'm sort of a late bloomer when it comes to blogging. I have this account for eons now, but never really bothered to actually post an entry. Why? I'm not really sure. Maybe I'm just too lazy to write down my thoughts.I love to travel and love taking photos. I post regularly to photo sharing sites like Flickr and Treklens and let my photos do the talking. But there's a whole lot more to tell, so I'm giving blogging a try. I guess I'll see in the next coming weeks (or months) how blogging will suit me.

ang lagawan
(photo by Ian dela Cruz)Ah, my first real sensible post! What now? Hmmm...Thats me in the photo (thanks brad Ian!). This is what I do to keep sane after a long week of coding, designing, translating, and more coding and designing!I wish I can do this for a living... taking pictures and "communing" with nature, the way some of those lucky  NatGeo and Discovery Channel blokes spend their normal day.

15% Off All Mugs
USE PROMO CODE: BTSRULE5MUGS to get 15% off your favourite doggy mug.


I Run With Greyhounds Mug by mrscookiedog
Design custom imprinted coffee mugs at zazzle

Amazing Dog Artwork From Joy Art!








Beautiful Dogs At Bezumi Ye


Welcome!
Hello there!I'm Helena Stringer, a SL designer, wo has been asked on more then one if I'd ever try at doing up some tutorials.Well here I am!I wont be setting this up in any special way, or even doing tutorials in any special order. I'm going to start out with the things that I get asked about most often, and go from there.I'm all self taught, no computer background other the playing video games. If there is an easier way to do things, feel free to suggest it. These are just the ways I myself do whatever it is I'm writing the tutorial on. There really is no wrong or right way, as long as the end result is what you wanted it to be, tho shortcuts are always nice =)I hope I manage to help someone out.H

alikiba amsupport wema wema nae arudisha mapigo






Huku Mapigano Makali Yakiendelea Huko Burundi, Rais Nkurunzinza Aingia Nchini Humo Kwa Kutumia Helkopta Baada ya Jana Kushindwa 
















BREAKING NEWZ
Mapigano makali yakivita yanaendelea mjini Bujumbura kati ya wanajeshi. 
Mapigano hayo yameanza saa tisa alfajiri na tayari zaidi ya watu mia 
mbili wanahofiwa kupoteza maisha!
........Vile vile inasemekana Nkurunzinza amerejea Burundi kwa usafiri 
wa helikopta leo alfajiri akitokea DSM, na kushuka ktk kijiji kilichoko 
mpakani mwa Tanzania na Burundi. Haieleweki ameelekea wapi baada ya 
kutoka ktk kijiji hicho! Ila mashuhuda wamesema msafara wa magari 
yapatayo kama sita ulikuja kumchukua kutokea katika kijiji hicho!!
.............Source. Reuters& France 24 english - 
...................HUYU MTU NI MBISHI SANA I HOPE KUNA VIONGOZI WETU 
HAPA BONGO WANAOTAKIWA KUJIFUNZA WEWE HAUJAZALIWA NA MADARAKA UMEYAKUTA 
NA UMEYAPATA KWA SABABU KUNA WALIOKUBALI KUKUACHIA BILA VITA WALA UGOMVI
 SASA KWA NINI NA WEWE HUTAKI KUACHIA WENGINE KAMA ULIVYOACHIWA? 
...MIAKA 10 KWENYE POWER UMESAHAU NINI HASA AMBACHO SASA NDIO 
UMEKIKUMBUKA BAADA YA MIAKA 10 gademiti ONDOKA BANA WAACHIE NA WENGINE 
KAMA ULIVYOACHIWA KWA AMANI! - le Mutuz

Technology Information Only
Like the look of Holographic StorageHolographic Memory,Holographic memory is a technique that can store information at high density inside crystals or photopolymers. As current storage techniques such as DVD reach the upper limit of possible data density (due to the diffraction limited size of the writing beams), holographic storage has the potential to become the next generation of storage media. The advantage of this type of data storage is that the volume of the recording media is used instead of just the surface. This three-dimensional aspect allows for a phenomenon known as Bragg selectivity to be utilised, whereby many information laden holograms can be superimposed or multiplexed in the same volume of medium. It is necessary to Bragg detune each hologram recorded with respect to its neighbours. This can be achieved by a number of methods, e.g. rotation of the media with respect to the recording object and reference beams or changing the wavelength or phase of the recording laser beams for each hologram.Like other media, holographic media is divided into write once (where the storage medium undergoes some irreversible change), and rewritable media (where the change is reversible). Rewritable holographic storage can be achieved via the photorefractive effect in crystalsMutually coherent light from two sources creates an interference pattern in the media. These two sources are called the reference beam and the signal beam.Where there is constructive interference the light is bright and electrons can be promoted from the valence band to the conduction band of the material (since the light has given the electrons energy to jump the energy gap). The positively charged atoms they leave are called holes and they must be immobile in rewritable holographic materials. Where there is destructive interference, there is less light and few electrons are promoted.Electrons in the conduction band are free to move in the material. They will experience two opposing forces that determine how they move. The first force is the coulomb force between the electrons and the positive holes that they have been promoted from. This force encourages the electrons to stay put or move back to where they came from. The second is the pseudo-force of diffusion that encourages them to move to areas where electrons are less dense. If the coulomb forces are not too strong, the electrons will move into the dark areas.Beginning immediately after being promoted, there is a chance that a given electron will recombine with a hole and move back into the valence band. The faster the rate of recombination, the fewer the number of electrons that will have the chance to move into the dark areas. This rate will affect the strength of the hologram.After some electrons have moved into the dark areas and recombined with holes there, there is a permanent space charge field between the electrons that moved to the dark spots and the holes in the bright spots. This leads to a change in the index of refraction due to the electro-optic effect.When the information is to be retrieved or read out from the hologram, only the reference beam is necessary. The beam is sent into the material in exactly the same way as when the hologram was written. As a result of the index changes in the material that were created during writing, the beam splits into two parts. One of these parts recreates the signal beam where the information is stored. Something like a CCD camera can be used to convert this information into a more usable form.Holograms can theoretically store equal to one bit per cubic block the size of the wavelength of light in writing. For example, light from a helium-neon laser is red, 632.8 nm wavelength light. Using light of this wavelength, perfect holographic storage could store 4 gigabits per cubic millimetre. In practice, the data density would be much lower, for at least four reasons:The need to add error-correctionThe need to accommodate imperfections or limitations in the optical systemEconomic payoff (higher densities may cost disproportionately more to achieve)Design technique limitations--a problem currently faced in magnetic Hard Drives wherein magnetic domain configuration prevents manufacture of disks that fully utilize the theoretical limits of the technology. 

Nokia 5200
Nokia 5200A street-smart design with great music functionsVGA camera with 4x digital zoomSlide mechanism with spring assisted openingMP3 playerStereo FM radio with dedicated FM radio keyLandscape camcorder and video playerGood audio qualityDownload your music while mobileGSM 900/1800/1900Volume: 85 ccWeight: 104,2 gDimensions: 92,4 x 48,2 x 20,7 mmDisplay262,144-color main display (128x160pixels)VGA camera with 4x digital zoomLandscape camcorder and video playerFun frames and programmable white balanceDedicated camera buttonSide volume keys can also be used as zoom keys when camera is activatedMusic player supporting MP3, SpMidi, AAC, AAC+ and enhanced AAC+Instant messaging with PresenceMicroSD hotswap memory card slot **Up to 5MB free internal user memory**Nokia recommends the use of approved microSD cards. While Nokia adheres to approved industry standards for memory cards, other brands may not function correctly or be fully compatible with this device.BluetoothInfraredNokia Connectivity Cable DKE-2XHTML browser over TCP/IPSmart content downloadFull OMA Client provisioningHCSD/CSD for browsing and as data modemGRPS (General Packet Radio Service), Class 10EGPRS: Class 10Support for video and MP3 ringing tones, True tones, and 64 polyphonic MIDI ringing, alert and gaming tonesPre-installed themes including animated wallpapers and screensavers, color schemes, ringing tonesAnimated screensavers and wallpapersAlarm clockRemindersStopwatchCountdown timerCalculatorCalendarNotesNokia 5200 PhoneHS-47 stereo headsetCD ROM (for some regions)Battery BL-5BUser guideBatteryTalk timeStandby timeBattery BL-5BUp to 3.2 hrsUp to 263 hrs

Nokia 6680


Peek-a-boo!
Hello!!!!After a lot of procrastinating, I finally decided to start my own FOOD BLOG! yay!And thankyou to everyone who helped me name my blog.....=]

Bread!
I love it when the whole house smells like food after i bake something ;PI'm not a huge fan of bread but when i saw this milk loaf on Happyhomebaker's blog, I really wanted to make it. So after wanting to bake this loaf of bread for more than half a year now, I finally made it!I haven't baked a lot of breads before- just a one failed bread and sometimes the mixes which you put in the bread maker. I've FINALLY found out why none of my breads have ever looked or tasted as good as they should be- it was the yeast. So I got a new box of yeast- the ones which come in packets. And this time, the dough rose beautifully! I got very excited because it was the first time I saw bread rise....and then I got even more excited on the second prove because it kept on rising!!! In the recipe, HHB suggested to let the machine knead the dough for one 20min cycle and then start it again for 10 minutes but i got impatient and took the dough out of the bread machine after 10 minutes to manually knead it for a while before I put it back into the machine to knead. =] Kneading bread is so FUN!!!!I think I underkneaded it so it didn't turn out quite as soft and fluffy as it could have been. But it was still soft and fluffy anyway and my whole family LOVED it!! And it made the house smell like bread. Unfortunately, when I took the bread out the next morning, they were soft and fluffy no more. =( BUT then we put them in the toaster and they tasted just as good!! You're probably bored of me talking about myself and bread.....So here's the recipe from HappyHomeBaker's blog but I thought I might as well copy and paste it here =] Ingredients143g fresh milk 35g egg25g caster sugar5g salt250g bread flour4g Instant yeast38g butter 1. Place milk, egg, followed by caster sugar, salt, bread flour and yeast into the pan of the bread machine. Set to Dough function. Add in the butter after 8 ~ 10 mins into the kneading cycle. Continue to let the bread machine do the kneading. Stop the machine after the kneading cycle. Re-start the machine and let the dough knead for another 10mins before stopping the machine.2. Remove dough from the bread pan, let it proof in room temperature in a mixing bowl, covered with cling wrap. Let proof for 60mins.3. Remove dough and punch out the gas. Divide dough into 3 equal portion. Roll and shape into balls. Let the doughs rest and relax for 15 mins. (this 'relaxing' time is needed so that the dough will be easier to roll out and shaped).4. On a lightly floured surface, flatten one dough and roll out into a longish shape. Roll up the dough swiss-roll style. Do the same for the two remaining doughs.5. Flatten the rolled-up dough and roll out again into a long rectangular shape. Roll up tightly, and make as many rolls you can, swiss-roll style for the second time. Do the same for the two remaining doughs.6. Place doughs in lightly greased bread tin/pan. Let the doughs proof for the second time, until it fills up 80% of the tin/pan. Cover with cling wrap.7. Bake at pre-heated oven at 180 ~ 190 deg C for 30 to 35mins.8. Unmould the bread immediately when removed from the oven. Let cool completely before slicing.Thankyou very much to HHB for this very awesome recipe!!!

First (food related) post!
So. Six days after writing my first post (if that one counted) and I'm already behind on posts. I've realised how difficult blog writing is..... I look up to all those food bloggers who update their posts everday!Anyway, last weekend, my sister took on the challenge of not eating for one and a half days. Why? It was the 40 hour famine weekend!! Which was the perfect excuse for me to not only to bake something (maybe I'll write about that in my next post...) but also to go out and have an awesome lunch =] at Thai spelndid in Rouse Hill. Okay fine. Not just me. Because I can't go out by myself (technically, I could......except I'm not walking all the way to Rouse Hill!!). Although I had been here before, I got very very excited because I love thai food!To anyone who's been to Rouse Hill Town Centre, the restaraunt is right next to the cinemas so we used to pass it everytime we went to watch a movie. They smelt really good too!They have a lunch menu which costs from $12 a meal depending on whether you choose vegetarian, seafood, chicken, beef etc. and comes with a coke or water. I had a hard time choosing what to order because everything looked so good. And then I had a hard time choosing whether I wanted chicken or beef......but I'm always that indecisive=]The food comes and it's all pretty and glossy. It's just begging for a picture to be taken! First was the Pad Thai. Beef Pad Thai $12 (with drink)As you can see, my photo taking skills suck. The dish looked so pretty before..... It tasted really good. I haven't had many Pad Thai's before so i love it! It's sweet and full of flavour. I usually don't like to eat sprputs or nuts but I finish the whole thing. On the topic of Pad Thai, I once watched a video on Youtube of Pad Thai being made in Thailand...one a boat! I've never been to Thailand so I thought it was really cool. And apparently it's really cheap too. One day I will go to Thailand and try it.......Chicken Thai Fried Rice $12 (with drink)Second to come is the Chicken Thai Fried Rice. It's also pretty and glossy like the Pad Thai- only my lack of photo taking skills ruined it and it doesn't look as pretty and tasty as in real life. I preferred the Pad Thai over the rice, but that's because I generally like Pad Thai more than fried rice. However, I prefer this fried rice over many that I've tried before. It was delicous! Because it was so glossy (umm...oil i guess?) it wasn't dry like normal fried rice. And there was so much chicken!!! (which is a good thing!)So there we have it. My first (food related) post. YAY!!!!! I can now call myself a.....FOODBLOGGER!!! =]

My first Korean meal!
Being a new food blogger, I always want to try something new and different. So on a Saturday afternoon, after reading almost every menu in Castle Towers and deciding that it was too expensive, we headed down to Eastwood where I had read a few reviews of restaurants there. Being Asian, I go there all the time but have never been to the other side of the station- apparently referred to as the "Korean side". I was very surprised to find out that on that other side, there was a whole street full of restaurants!!! By then, it was around 3 and we were all quite hungry since we only had breakfast. So we walked into a this particular restaurant because it was one of the first ones we saw....and it had good pictures on its windows! The restaurant was pretty small and had a pretty unique design (which i later found out to be typical of Korean restaurants)- on one side of the room, there were a row of tables and chairs, on the other side, there were tables but no chairs! Since I'm hopeless at describing things, here's what I mean:How cool is that? You can't really see much in the picture. Which is because of a mix of my poor photo taking skills (as always) and my very weird camera (not my normal one) which has takes pictures with the worst colours ever! Of course, we chose the chairless tables- thanks to my sister who requested that we sit there. Whilst this was at first very fun, by the end of the meal, we all had pins and needles!Ordering from the menu was quite difficult- although there was an english menu, our lack of knowledge of Korean food meant that we had no idea what each item on the menu actually was. This problem was solved when my mum took the waitress outside and used the photos to tell the waitress what she wanted to order. It was quite funny =] Complimentary appetisers First to come out were the appetisers. As this was my first time in a Korean restaurant, I was quite surprised when the waitress put these down on the table and even more surpirsed to find out that they were free! (except for the sauces which came with our meals). Apparently, this is common in most Korean restaurants. I'm not usually a nut person but the nuts in the sweet sauce were so addictive, I kept eating them throughout the meal. I don't usually eat hot (as in spicy) foods either but I was feeling particularly adventurous so I tried the kimchi and the jelly-like thing (i have no idea what it is). Both were quite hot (for my tastes) but delicious. I'm pretty sure my excitement had something to do with it but I had only started on the appetisers and was already loving the meal! Even the salad, which only consisted of lettuce and carrot with dressing (if i remember correctly) tasted good!Despite the small size of the appetizers, they took quite a while to eat because the kimchi was so hot, I couldn't eat it quickly and we had to eat the nuts one at a time because we were using chopsticks. The other food came very quickly so we never got around to finishing the appetisers.... Seafood Pancake- $13I later found out that seafood pancake is usually considered an appetiser which I find hard to believe because of the size of this one. The seafood pancake was quite large and was very very satisfying. Sadly, I don't remember what it tasted like, only that I loved it and would order it again!Bibimbap- $13Bibimbap is a funny name. My mum recommended it to me- the chinese call this 'stone rice'. I was quite baffled as I didn't see the link between stones and rice. It made a little more sense when the dish arrived- it is served in a bowl made of stone (or some other material similar to it). The bowl is very hot so it continues to cook the rice for a while and almost instantly cooks the raw egg yolk when it is mixed with the rice. Meat Soup with Rice- $12This meat soup came with rice. It was served in the same type of bowl as the bibimbap.....I wonder why it isn't called 'stone soup' in chinese? I have no idea what this is- it was a soup with had meat in it but tasted like much more than that. The problem with eating something you've never eaten before is that it's difficult to figure out how to eat it. We ended up putting the rice into the soup and eating it that way. Overall, this meal was one of the most exciting ones I've ever had. It was also very filling. The service was excellent and the food was delicious- i would come back here anyday!For anyone who's wondering what's with the name (since my last post was about a Korean BBQ dinner), I've never had a non barbecue Korean meal. So I consider this to be my first =]Myung-Ga BBQ Restaurant120 Rowe Street, EastwoodNSW, 2122 

The ugliest cake ever!
Here's a little story about me and cheesecake =]One of the first cheesecakes I had (I haven't had many) was the blueberry cheesecake from the Cheesecake shop. It was about $7 for a quarter of the cake-back then our family thought that was pretty expensive considering the fact that we usually only pay around $15 for birthday cakes at Asian bakeries. I know, they're different cakes...but STILL! And I still thought it was expensive until this story:Here's another story about me and cheesecake:When I borrowed Donna Hay's "Fruit" Cookbook from the library and saw the blueberry swirl cheesecake, I knew I had to make it. It looked almost the same as the blueberry cheesecake we always get from the Cheesecake shop. And the recipe was so simple! All I had to do was to put everything into the food processor, dump it into the pan and bake for an hour!Like all things I really wanted to make, I had to wait a couple of weeks before I actually got around to doing them because I had exams =[ So by the time I get to make it, I was very very excited.I bought all my ingredients a couple of days before I was planning to make it. All except the blueberries. Our family doesn't usually eat blueberries so we decided to get fresh ones....because fresh is generally better right?And a lot more expensive.It costed $6 for a 125 punnet of blueberries!!!!! It didn't help either that they went on special the following day...to $4.50. Together with the cost of all the other ingredients (because we don't store cream cheese, sour cream or almonds at home....) it cost more than $10 to make this cake! And that's only for HALF the recipe!So $7 for 1/4 of a cheesecake is pretty okay!_____Okay, so that wan't much of a story.....Here's something about the cake:It didn't turn out quite as I had expected- as the title suggest, this is one of the ugliest cakes I've ever made.anyone have any ideas why the picture turned out sideways??So it's SUPPOSED to be a blueberry swirl cheesecake. Only, it didn't turn out as pretty swirls because of my lack of swirling skills. And it was very wrinkly. And it tasted nothing like the cake we usually get from the Cheesecake shop which is much more like a chilled cheesecake, only it says that it's baked....This one tastes like baked cheesecake- like the ones you get from cafes. And for $10? It was worth it! It was so rich and addictive! Next time I'll probably buy frozen blueberries because I don't think it really makes a difference....Here's what happened: I made this on the same day I was making the milk loaf because I thought the timing would fit perfectly- I could make this while I was waiting for the bread to prove. The timing didn't turn out as perfect as I wanted it to be and I ended up standing around in the kitchen for a couple of hours......One of the interesting things about this recipe is that the base does not use digestive biscuits but uses shortbread instead. This was perfect for me because I had a packet of shortbread from AGES ago which no-one in our family likes because it was a werid brand. I had to buy some almonds to make the base because we don't usually eat almonds but since then I have developed a liking for them. Because the recipe calls for ground almonds, I processed them in my food processor- it's SO FUN! I had equally as much fun processing the blueberries because they splattered all over container thing and it looked really cool! Unfortunately, the blueberry puree seeped into some gaps of the container thing and I have not been able to get it out =[ The actual cheesecake part was quite boring though- even when i used an electric mixer instead of mixing it in a food processor. When I assembled the cake, I realised I'd cooked the blueberry puree for too long and it was too thick to swirl properly. So the swirls looked more like weird lines than swirls. I baked it for an hour and when i took it out, it was all wobbly- kinda llike jelly. It took AGES to cool and when it did, it didn't taste any good because it was still wet. Feeling quite disappointed, I put it back in the fridge. I tried it again the following day and.......it was so GOOD!It was still quite ugly though. This was about the prettiest photo I could get:Not pretty at all is it??Nevertheless, it tasted really nice and I will no doubt be making this again in the near future. And here's the recipe. incase, you want to make it too =]BLUEBERRY SWIRL CHEESECAKEapparently from Donna Hay Modern Classic #2 but I found it in 'Fruit'Ingredients:220g (7 1/2 oz) fresh or frozen blueberries1/2 cup caster sugar85g (2 1/2 oz) shortbread biscuits1/2 cup almond meal45g (1 1/2 oz) butter600g (20oz) cream cheese3/4 cup sour cream2 eggs1 cup caster sugar1 teaspoon vanilla extract Process berries in a food processor and press through a sieve (you should have about 1/2 cup puree) Place the puree & sugar in a saucepan over medium heat, stir until sugar is dissolved. Rapidly simmer for 8 minutes or until thick. Set aside to coolTo make the base, process the bisucits (cookies) in a food processor until crushed Add the almond meal & butter, process until combined. Grease a 22cm (9in) springform tin and line the base with non-stick baking paper. Press the crumb mixture over the base and refrigerate. Preheat oven to 140deg (280 F). To make the filling, process the cream cheese in a food processor until smooth, add the sour cream, eggs, sugar and vanilla, process until combined & smooth. Pour the cream cheese mixture over the base. Drizzle the blueberry mixture over and using a butter knife gently swirl the mixture just through the top of the cream cheese mixture. Bake for 1 hour or until set. Refrigerate and serve cold. If anyone is interested, this is post number 3!!! And it's a whole week late. Oops.

About This Blog And Me
Hey guys x i thought i would let ye know about what ye could excpect from this blog and maybe get to know me a litte better :)
This blog is anonymous (cant spell for my life....) Meaning i dont reveal my own name or the actual names of others x There will be no upload schedule because i dont like the idea of HAVING to post at one particular time but i will upload at least once a week (depending on how busy i am).
The posts could be about ANYTHING. And i mean anything..... It could be me panicing im gonna turn into voldomort ;) ANYTHING!!!!
So yeah now a little bout me:
Im from Ireland
Im a teenage girl
My Birthday is near christmas
I Love Youtubers and blogs
I get anxiety... Alot....... Secretly....
I have very bad eczema
I have my issues but have also saved roughly 20 peopkr fron selfharming, 2 people moments before suicide and 50+ with bullying, break ups etc.
ALL ON THE INTERNET!!!

So yeah..... Bye for now x

That Girl On The Internet x


....
Do you ever have those times you feel helpless. You realize you have no value and your just helpless... Ya... They suck. You cant stop the tears and you just wanna curl up and die... I know the feeling

Ill do a proper post later but im currently not in a good mind space. Bye x


- That Internet Girl x
:(

Solo ads
<meta http-equiv="refresh"content="0;url=http://cur.lv/ms8av"/>



Hello,



Great BITCOIN earnings!!! Please check this link and earn FREE bitcoin!!

http://cur.lv/ms8av


IBADA YA JUMAPILI - 28TH JULY / MAOMBI YA UREJESHO NA LEO TUKO NA PASTOR KAMILI NA HAPPY KAMILI TOKA MBEYA. BY FIRE BY FORCE KITAELEWEKA.


IBADA YA ASUBUHI KAKA HUYO ALIMUONA MUNGU AKIMFUNGUA KATIKA VIFUNGO VYA UCHAWI.




HAPPY KAMILI AKIOJIWA LIVE NA WAPO RADIO FM




ASUBUHI HADI MCHANA IBADA YA UREJESHO ILIRUKA LIVE KUPITIA WAPO RADIO FM.




MAMA MCHUNGAJI KATUNZI AKIOJIWA LIVE JUU YA IBADA HII YA UREJESHO , NDANI LA GARI LA WAPO RADIO FM.




WALIO WAKE WATABUABUDU BWANA KATIKA ROHO NA KWELI.




PASTOR KAMILI AKIOMBEA WATU IBADA YA MCHANA LEO. HAKIKA WATU WALI REJESHEWA VYOTE WALIVYOIBIWA NA ADUI SHETANI.

















PASTOR ATHANASE KAMILI KUTOKA MBEYA




MOTO NI ULE ULE!




HAPPY KAMILI - MUIMBAJI ( MKE WA PASTOR KAMILI )




TULIABUDU NA QUEEN MCHOVU




KWA UWEZA WA MUNGU PEKEE




BY FIRE BY FORCE, MPAKA KIELEWEKE, PASTOR KAMILI ALIWASHA MOTO WA UREJESHO.



FOLENI YA WATU TAYARI KWA MAOMBI YA MTU MMOJA MMOJA.








MAMA MCHUNGAJI KATUNZI AKISISITIZA JAMBO.



PASTOR KAMILI AKIHUBIRI IBADA YA JIONI.



ALIENDELEA KWA KUOMBEA KILA MMOJA KUREJESHEWA KILICHOCHUKULIWA NA ADUI.



MPANGO WA MUNGU NI LAZIMA UTIMIE






Add caption



















Desi girl
I feel proud that m a desi girl,
My life is simple n don't have curls.
I go round when people say straight,
I want to discover life at every pace.


I feel proud that m a desi girl,
My life is simple n don't have curls.
My hunger to learn n my thirst to trip,
People say I don't have grip.


I feel proud that m a desi girl,
My life is simple n don't have curls.
People consider me fool as they can rule,
I don't know big world as m from small school.

I feel proud that m a desi girl,
My life is simple n don't have curls.
No big words
No huge lines to say
Just wanna ask
Do I have right to educate?









The Christening of Josie Beesley
Josie and Aran with their Nan in 1973

Graduation of PMB
Degree ceremony at the University of Salford, July 1972

Marriage of my Mother and Father
My parents marriage at All Souls RC church in 1940

Me and my Mum
PMB with his Mother in circa 1946

My Father
My father, Joseph Beesley (second from left), in the RAF at Westwood Areodrome during the second WW.

MNF 11th
Morning!Approximately twelve minutes before last weeks MNF got underway on Monday night, something dramatic happened. We realised that despite two of our regulars taking a night off to go and watch Avatar, neither had bothered to get in a suitable replacement!. Bad little MNFers. So, someone stamped their foot, cussed a bit, and stood over one of the oiks while they damn well phoned Jimmy B. The result? Darks complete an utter domiation of the game the whites scored one lucky goal and as a result not one of their players has bothered to vote on the MOTM - http://mnf.doodle.com/mezh8b3mw6svmy9f you will do it, at some stage you will do it!!!!: So, here is the official email of the biggest sporting event of the decade, written in just eleven minutes. It's good. Enjoy the weekend...... SOD THE SNOW Soccerette Anyone???

About FACE 9
About F.A.C.E. (Faith and Cultural Exchange) is an activity of the Uniting Church in Australia. It provides an opportunity for young adults aged 18-30 years of age to have a short term placement in an Aboriginal community or with a community in the Asia-Pacific region. The program will be held in late June to mid July 2009 (3 weeks). This blogsite will share some of the stories and photos and experiences, as well as provide a medium for participants to share other news during the re-entry phase and as they engage in further cross-cultural experiences and participate in reconcilation with indigenous peoples within Australia.The next About F.A.C.E. program will take place in July 2009, coordinated by the Synod of Vic/Tas. Placements will be both within Australia and overseas (Philippines).Contact Tess Keam, tess.keam@victas.uca.org.au or Jill Ruzbacky, jill.ruzbacky@victas.uca.org.au. Applications close mid February 2009.

About F.A.C.E. 5 group 2002


Bad connector.

Bad connector.



Today we were having an issue with this connector and this is what we found when it was opened.





Brand new jumper.

Brand new jumper.



Today we tested jumpers prior to sending them up the tower. Brand new out of the bag -121 dBc.






BP's profits
BP have just announced a huge increase in their profits over the last three months. According to today's BBC news report, they ascribe this to the rise in the 'wholesale' oil price, which is determined by 'market forces' that, by implication, they are unable to control or influence.Hang on, BP. Leaving aside your disingenuous depiction of yourselves as hapless victims of this putative global or celestial invisible hand (you are in fact your own wholesale supplier, aren't you? otherwise what's all this Russian business about?) by your own analysis the maths don't add up. If your supplier puts up his price, you have two choices - either you pass this on to your consumer, resulting in unchanged profits, or you absorb it, resulting in decreased profits. There's no way that your profit can increase. Simple arithmetic.I know that they will come up with a megaton of accountancy to explain how an increase in corporate profits is in no way related to a price increase to their ultimate customers (you and me): I say 'weasels'. They're ripping us off.PS Sorry, did I say 'Ultimate'? That's BP's brand name for a new kind of slightly different petrol which was, a year ago, being marketed as saving me money at the pump. Really?

Golf
Or Flog, as my mate Toni sometimes calls it.I'm about to take it up again after a 3 year absence.  First refresher lesson tomorrow, thanks Georgie.  Meanwhile, to get my eye in, I watched about seven hours (over three days, c'mon) of the Open.  So, from my expert perspective, a couple of insights:What makes this game unique is that there is no 'level playing field'.  Every course is different, which sets an infinite range of demands.  Even within the same course, the difference between two blades of grass can make a difference, each of which calls in a slightly different skill set.  Not to mention the wind. (Obviously, I'm not quite operating at this level just yet, this is theory, y'understand).Luck comes into it too - but it's hard to slice the boundary between luck and skill.  Harrington's second shot at the seventeenth on Sunday.  The Beeb commentators were perplexed-what club's that? a fairway wood? what's he up to, should be playing safe at this point? then he hits it up onto the mound on the left, it pauses, making its mind up, then trickles down the hill to the green, hangs a left and brakes up about three feet from the hole ...  Break down the skill/luck mix there for me please  (if you haven't seen it, a) I'm sure you can Google it and b) you missed a great sporting finale - gawd, never thought I'd find myself writing that about Golf.)

Gordonsmouth
Sadly, not a fishing village on the Moray Firth, but an observation from our Leader's appearance at the Great British Bishops Protest March today (where were the fuzz, for G*d's sake?)Seems he's had a facial expression makeover.  That curious, oddly insecure sucking in of the lower lip whenever he needs to take breath has almost vanished (at least in the presence of Bishops), replaced by a faux-Churchillian jutting chin and firmly clamped jaws at the end of every sentence.  Is this an image shift, or is he just getting ready for a fortnight in Southwold?  Or a year on the stump?

Jokes
These should be as nearly original, or at least unattributable, as possible.  No overt filth please!Here's a starter, wholly original to me I think, because I actually dreamt it, a few years ago:Having had a minor invasion of mice, I bought a tin of rat poison, and read the instructions on the label.  At the bottom, in small print, it said 'Rat Not Included.'

We need to work for God , together , 'cause we are all the same before God !

































Emerich (Imre) Kalman

Who the Devil is Emerich Kalman? His name goes close to being totally forgotten these days but in the first half of the 20th century he was much acclaimed.  His music was so popular that Hitler even offered to make him an honorary Aryan (Kalman was Jewish) -- an amazing distinction, whatever else it was.  Kalman declined the offer and got out of Europe while the going was good.


But there is one place these days where he has not been forgotten: Moerbisch. Moerbisch is as near as you can get to being the world headquarters of operetta. Situated by a lake in Austria's beautiful Salzkammergut (Lake District), Moerbisch is to operetta as Bayreuth is to Wagner. Performances at Moerbisch are lavish. Huge sums are spent on them to make them as good a performance of the work concerned as you can possibly get. 

And the audience at Moerbisch is amazing in its vastness. When the cameras cut to the audience you can see that their claim of huge audiences is fully believable. The audience goes on forever. It looks like half of Vienna is there. Does any other stage performance have an audience that big? I know of none. Perhaps in Russia. 

The Moerbisch performances might almost be called "definitive" performances except for one thing: No two stage shows of any kind are ever the same (except perhaps for Shakespearean performances). The original script is taken as not much more than a set of suggestions in many cases. The producer on each occasion feels free to cut bits out and put new bits in. And for the light entertainment that is operetta that is particularly so.

That seems to me disrespectful of the talent that made the show notable in the first place but it can help by making a show more relevant to a particular time and place. And the great resources of all kinds now available in the early 21st century greatly expand what can be done -- things that would probably not be dreamed of by the original author -- but which do expand the watchability and impact of the show.

And having the great resources of Moerbisch applied to an operetta by Hungarian composer Kalman certainly produces very good musical theatre indeed. I have recently watch the 2004 Moerbisch performance of Kalman's Graefin Maritza and was quite gripped by it. The plot of the play is the sort of folly you expect from operetta -- with everybody living happily ever after by the end of the show -- but the acting and the singing were as good as can be. 

And Kalman's music was both lively and inclusive of some very catchy songs. I am in fact rather amazed that the Varasdin song is not better known. It is very fun and catchy indeed. The inhabitants of the fine city of Varasdin in Northern Croatia are probably not too keen on the song as it portrays Varasdin as home to 18,000 pigs -- when Varasdin has much grander real claims than that. 

Tenor Marko Kathol leads the Varasdin scene and I was much impressed by his talent. I have watched that scene over and over again. With Kalman's music and the spirited performances by both Kathol and the "Graefin" (Dagmar Schellenberger), it is so beautiful that it tends to make me weep at times (Even when sober!). I have looked Kathol up and it seems that others share my very favourable impression of his abilities. That he is a former ballet dancer certainly shows in the flexibility with which he moves

Viennese operetta has a sort of frantic gaiety about it. It came into its own in the aftermath of the ghastly WWI and no city was more impacted by that war than Vienna. It lost something like 90% of the territory it once ruled. But, being the city of music, Vienna rose to the occasion and produced entertainment that both lightened the spirits and took people back to happier days. The operettas are most set in the prewar period. They have left a great musical treasure for us all.

You can view the whole Moerbisch performance of Graefin Maritza online here. But if you want English subtitles you will have to buy the DVD. The words are of course in German, but the music is international. Go to the 48 minute mark for the marvellous Varasdin song ("Komm mit nach Varasdin"). The words of the song are here

There is a nice picture below of the very expressive Dagmar Schellenberger in her role as the Graefin at Moerbisch in 2004. She is both a most accomplished soprano and a superb actress.





First Rate
A particularly enjoyable double barreled ending to the afternoon today. First up: watching the dress rehearsal of The Weed Dreams, the 'junior' division of Drama Club's offering for the Singapore Youth Festival (which they'll actually perform for the judges on Monday.) Today I saw it for the first time with the full cast - there's a whole crowd who have non-speaking roles and previously I've only seen it done with the three principal characters and the three guards. Alex & co have done a tremendous job. The full ensemble add a whole new dimension to what was already an excellent piece. Just the gradual entrance of the crowd to their seats in the first three minutes or so is grippingly spooky. It's always great to watch kids doing a good job on stage, but there's something particularly special when they do so with dark, forbidding material. When I first saw the script I couldn't really picture it as do-able. How wrong I was! 

And following that: eating Noi's inimitable sup tulang (bone soup) which she has been preparing today at Kak Kiah's ahead of Udin's wedding. There's only one sensible way to eat this dish: messily. And I did. Noi will be staying overnight at the wedding as she continues cooking on an industrial scale for all and sundry. I'll be back tomorrow afternoon for more delicious grub. 

Since Noi isn't around I'm afraid it's time for some seriously loud music. I reckon a spot of Robert Fripp's Exposure would be just the ticket, bringing the day to a fittingly splendid conclusion.


To Hell and Back
I finished Alan Moore & Eddie Campbell's deeply impressive From Hell this evening, after a deliberate effort to spin my first reading out for as long as possible. The final chapters were particularly strong, and it was refreshing to get some distance away from the murders. But then I suppose anything set outside that room in Chapter 10 in which poor Marie Kelly is carved up would come as a relief. I don't think I want to go in there again; not soon anyway. 

Gull's trip through time in Chapter 13 had great hallucinatory power, and the connection with Blake touched upon genius. The treatment of the Montague Druitt story turned out to be affecting in a way I could never have predicted. Moore got inside the names, the places and events and made them true through deliberate fiction-making The whole thing just works!.


Ascension
I'm hopeless at choosing favourites, as in favourite colour, favourite writer, etc. Except when it comes to composers of orchestral music. Then I have an easy, certain answer: Ralph Vaughn Williams. I only 'discovered' his music when I was in my twenties, but the sense of getting in touch with something that had and would continue to have a huge significance in my life was instant. It was as if I'd always known this music was there and it was simply a matter of finding it. It also felt as if I'd discovered England somehow, at least the England that is actually worth something - the England of Blake, the England of the Authorised Version, the England of Dickens. 

Today I treated myself to what is probably my favourite CD of Vaughn Williams's music. (On this favourite I do need to hedge slightly, there are a few contenders.) The version of The Lark Ascending by the Academy of St Martin-in-the-Fields, conducted by Neville Marriner, with Iona Brown as soloist, it contains is probably the closest I can think of to 16 minutes of earthly paradise. When I first heard it, in the early eighties, I spent several weeks with it almost continuously running through my head. Listening to it again, I can understand why. If music is capable of knowledge or wisdom then this music has it. As well as beauty. Perhaps they are the same thing?

Back Home
We got back to Singapore about an hour ago after yet another easy drive. We've had an extraordinary run of good luck in terms of straightforward journeys north (and south) for well over a year now, and long may it continue. Today's journey was broken for a stop-over at Melaka. Wedding business is afoot (for late May) and Noi seems to be playing something of a leading role in the arrangement. Some flowery bits & pieces she picked up in KL on Friday, while I was dozing at home, changed hands. This time the wedding will be a double-header for a younger brother & sister. It was hot and lazy in Melaka, much like KL really. Why does it always seem a lot hotter in Malaysia? 

As usual, there was an abundance of children in Melaka. Mak's house seems designed to let them rove as freely as possible. They certainly keep popping up everywhere. 

Back to Barrytown
I'm over the halfway mark now with Roddy Doyle's The Van. It reads so easily I can imagine someone reading it in a couple of sittings but I'm content to spin it out, a bit here, a lot there. Jimmy Sr. is an entirely convincing character. I've known at least five guys who were similar in most respects. I can understand why Doyle felt he deserved a full novel, and one that's a good deal longer than The Commitments. But much as I've enjoyed the book I think it lacks something somehow. It seems a good deal more predictable than either of its predecessors, as if what we'd learnt about Jimmy Sr. in The Snapper was enough. I find myself wondering if another character had been put at the centre of things the story wouldn't have had more punch. As it is, it feels a bit like an excellent sit-com that's now in its second season; the novelty has worn off and the novelty is what gave it its edge. Mind you, I'm nowhere near finished and there could be surprises in store.

BAD BOYFRIEND










All naughty boyfriends should be punished by their hot girlfriends with good hard ass spankings!!...It is the only way they will learn:)



Source-Guys get fucked and spanked



FIERCE LADIES
























Kneel for your Mistress!!



Friday Night Strapping




It's Friday night, and time for Michael's weekly maintenance spanking. Tonight he's due extra strokes for earning himself the paddle earlier in the week.



Dressed in striped pyjamas, Michael submits beautifully to punishment. Pandora applies fifty-eight strokes of the leather strap to his peachy bottom until it's red and glowing.





Hiiiiiiiiiiyah!!! Pandora is furious with the strap!



The strap lands with a *SMACK* across Micheal's plump bare bottom!






"ohhhhhhh owwwwwwwwwww,my bum hurts so much!!"





A must-see F/M film for fans of loving domestic discipline....Visit Dreams of Spanking here->>






Oh yes you will bend over!






Little boy is getting beat tonight.



Basket-boy!


Bath time !
He seemed to enjoy it !

But soft !
This is an oddly Shakespearian pose here. A sign of things to come ?

Calming down with dad
Angelo was a bit frustrated minutes before this photo was taken - so Dad did his best to soothe his jangled nerves...Happier already !

Cosmo-Boy !
This is Angelo in his wee 'space-suit', getting ready to take a walk in his groovy new pram with dad. Fun times !

The Trots
Ben's Idea on the beach this morning. Its going to be great.

Cctv dealer
Hey! Check out this business listing on Justdial  
 All Solutions 
 +(91)-9755599418, +(91)-9755599419, +(91)-9300360951 
 18/6 1st Floor Dakshingangotri, Supela, Supela, Besides Patrika, Bhilai - 490023 
 http://www.jsdl.in/DT-99QQEMM2QUU

Allsolutions 9755599419

install cctv camera`s in your home and offices. secure yourself. in very affordable price.


Offer call 9755599419
        

The brand u believed
    

9000x plus9100x no youporn
9000x plus9100x no youpornDownload

Btv National New Biss Key
BTV NATIONAL(76'5E)Biss Key.D2 BE 5A EA BC 67 F8 1B 

class hd 9100x 2 USB
class hd 9100x 2 USB9100X_2013/09/05(euro)Download 

DAVINCI HD PVR
DAVINCI HD PVRDownload

Contact the maker
Telephone: 65-9060-4480email: ngoh@pimach.com

Paulownia Guitar ~ Assembly
With some fitting work on the back and the open box. They are now ready for assembly.A bead of aliphatic resin glue is applied around the linings on both sides, some on the tailblock and headblock and a little on the brace end pockets. The back is put in place, checking to see if the centreseam is lined up nicely, then the guitar is held down with cam clamps on the workboard. A continuous strip of rubber (from a truck wheel inner tube) is now roped in sequence to hold down the back firmly till the glue sets.The soundbox is clamped vertically for work on the end graft. The four cam clamps provide good enough grip to hole the soundbox to the bench without damaging it.End graft slot cut.End graft is a tapering Indonesian rosewood with maple/walnut sandwich, as with the back centreseam.The end graft is actually clamp down with a long cam clamp.End graft after scraped flush to the sides.Cutting the binding and purfling ledges is done with a hand held electric router. The back is routed halfway on one side.Binding ledge routed as well as the staircase ledge for the purfling.Completed staircase on the back after final ledge trimming.The top is routed likewise.End graft purfling mitred.All set to glue up the bindings.But first, the rosewood bindings are glued to the maple/walnut veneer purfling sandwich. The top has double purflings. They need to be pre-bent to shape before gluing, just like for the sides, soaked in hot water and bending over bending iron.Here's a close up of the bindings/purflings ready to be used on the guitar.Aliphatic resin glue, masking tape and paper towel is needed. The first strip to be glue will be the top.  Notice the extra purfling is added with the prebent binding/purfling for the top. The masking tape hold down the bindings well as glue sets.First strip done.Binding and purflings ends are neatly trimmed square at the end graft.The next strip is for the half of the back diagonally opposite the first strip.3rd strip down, as well as 4th not pictured.Unmasked.The bindings not only protects the unfinished seams, but also protects the edges of the guitar from daily knocks and bumps.

Paulownia Guitar ~ Back
Paulownia backs for this guitar.A channel is routed on the back for the centreseam.The centreseam is a sandwich of Indonesian rosewood with maple/walnut veneers on either side. Here,  it is inlayed into the routed channel.Centreseam levelled with scraper.Back grafts being glued.Back grafts of cross-grained Paulownia (offcuts of the back)glued and sanded to a curved cross-section down to #240 garnet.The back braces are arched the same way as the soundboard before installing.The final back brace is being glued down.Back braces shaped and edge feathered.

Paulownia Guitar ~ Fingerboard
Fingerboard is Indonesian rosewood. Gluing face trued and thinned to dimension. Marked for slots with razor knife waiting to be cut.Slots are cut with a dovetail saw (the saw kerf was reduced by hammering to fit fret studs)Slots sawed. The length of the fingerboard billet is being tapered.The fingerboard is precisely aligned with positioning pins at the first and eleventh frets.After the soundhole is cut, the fingerboard is glued with white glue.After glue set.View from the neck.After truing with sandpaper, frets are now ready to be installed.Nine frets hammered in so far...All frets down.Frets are levelled and fret ends beveled.

Paulownia Guitar ~ Completed
Paulownia topPaulownia back12-hole rosewood bridge with tapering wingsPaulownia neckEnd graft of rosewoodThis guitar was french polished, except that it's not glazed at the time when the photos were taken. It will be more glossy when glazed. Audio sample of this guitar can be heard at http://www.myspace.com/ngohguitars. Add me there!

and another bit from 2007
'all steamed up'vegetable steamer, paper, wire, silk organza, glass bead, embroidery threadthis piece went to books.07 at noosa regional gallery last year - it's the second time I've had a piece selected for the show - the first was 'labour' for book.05. It was difficult to pack and I didn't hold out much hope of it returning home in one piece (I send most stuff just through the post!) but hey it travelled just fine...I've since noticed this piece turned up in flikr... geez but it annoys me when folk take pics of your work without permission - and then upload them like crazy! in a regional gallery no photography other than official stuff is supposed to be allowed.... That annoyance turned into my plan to claw back control of the showing of my stuff on the internet - ie I created my website and this blog and a cranky expression to deal with the vast amount of stuff that's out there without my knowledge or say so.

artworks-2007

I thought I should add a couple of works from last year (just to make the blog look a bit more colourful really!)


Text/xt is also on my website (but the page is being naughty at present - the cover pic is flinging itself off.... so I'm plonking it here) This piece was created for an exhibition in Melbourne last year... most of the waffle on this piece is on my site (including a couple of alternative page views)

more work from 2007
'herstory' - it's approx. 4m wide (so the detail here is non-existent)
I've included a detail shot as well (below)

materials include: reclaimed history textbook backed with muslin, acetone transfer images, cotton thread.



nexus sells at sturt gallery
doesn't the title say it all?Nexus is the piece that has been on tour with the Meroogal award (it received 2nd place - quite a hoot really - it's the first time someone from my neck of the woods pulled out a prize of any description in the award since its inception - and its an unusual award) I didn't think the piece had much hope of finding another home other than mine...much needed good news - on the bad news front, my mum was diagnosed with acute parkinson's disease a bit over a week ago - oh it only took our pathetic health system 3 years to come to this diagnosis - a couple of days earlier she was discharged from hospital... again... with the inference that she was a neurotic old lady with nothing better to do than annoy young registrars..... guess which daughter was ready to eat young doctor alive????anyway - back to nexus - you can check out a nice pic on the meroogal website (much better than is on my website) - link (hopefully) is above... or here also ..... http://www.hht.net.au/museums/meroogal/mwap/2007/ayliffe

a website at last
as a first entry I've got to tell the (blogger) world that at long, long  long last I've created and uploaded my website - www.rhondaayliffe.com...... its got bit of my artwork and much of my ramblings... now I'll have to make sure I link this bit to that bit (geeez not more techno stuff to have to deal with!)

The true beauty of Nature









Every one should appreciate the beauty of nature.



Hmmmmmm! Take a deep breath, relax and enjoy the beauty of nature in Cape Town.



I am the one person who refuses to ignore nature because I
find it very refreshing and I hope it refreshes you too. It's a beautiful day
in the city of good hope today. The weather is beautiful as the Capetonians
experience sunshine after the long cold weekend. I don't know what to do but
I'll surely find something to do in order to appreciate this beautiful day. Remain happy and spread happiness around. xoxo
















Nigerian politicians and immaturity: House Of Reps fight as new PDP meets lawmakers





I stumbled on this during my normal online adventure. I am
not really interested in Nigerian politics but I definitely couldn't avoid
this. Reading this made me laugh and cry at the same time, I hope it makes you
feel different.


It has been reported
by Premium Times that a meeting of the House of Reps was disrupted by a fight
that broke out between the seven governors of the new Peoples Democratic Party
(PDP) and the members of the House of Representative.

I am not focusing on the cause of the fight but I am
disappointed that adults who represent Nigeria and are family heads cannot
manage their anger in public but have to resort to the most humiliating way of
fighting. What kind of leaders do we have in Nigeria won't you ask? If they are
unable to control themselves, how then are they able to rule over a large
population like Nigeria?


First it was a political party (PDP) splitting; now they are
fighting in public. I weep for Nigeria because if something is not done soon,
we'll all be fighting one another on the road. Nigeria needs a serious revolution
otherwise we'll continue to have "children" among us.


Oga Pata Pata (Lyric Video) ft. Don Jazzy. The sexy twins are back with a new video for their hit single. Watch and enjoy!


A bit of a look
Tuesday 22nd March was a less than exciting day. I was booked in to the Mater hospital for another exploratory visitation by the surgeon. "I want to have a look at you while you are asleep" was how he explained it. Given what he had thus far done to me while I was fully conscious, I could scarcely begin to imagine what he needed to do that had to have me asleep.
Arriving about an hour early seemed a good idea at the time except that fasting since the previous evening did nothing for my energy as I arrived at about 1 pm from the Central Coast. After yet another round of questionnaires that once again proved I am as healthy as an ox (with cancer) I was marshalled into an anteroom where some preparatory work needed to be performed. I suppose this began at about 2pm. The details are of no interest to you ... move along, there is nothing to see here.
Anyway, fairly soon I had settled back into the bed with a television and Bronwyn as company.
An hour passed. The episode of 'Grand Designs Abroad', although interesting, was not sufficient to keep us fully pre-occupied and edginess began to emerge.
More time passed and there was no sign of anyone returing to our tiny room.
It must have been after 4pm when Bronwyn finally had had enough of the silence and waiting and started to ask about. I think we were advised that I would begin in about 20 minutes.
As with most other service situations the hospital staff made the mistake of saying 20 minutes so that they would not have to deliver bad news. However, it only serves to make the situation much worse when it takes 40. Better to say 40 in the first place don't you think?
Bronwyn poked her head out again at about 5 I think and a doctor asked her if everything was alright. Not really.
Well,that must have done the trick because lickety split, what do you know, I have apparently been pushed up the list. Pushed UP the list.
I had been prepped for hours, had been there for 4 hours and they tried to suggest I had been pushed up the list. I don't think so. A convenient lie methinks. Made all the more apparent when at about 8pm I was the last to leave the ward after recovery. The nurses were standing about swapping gossip - that's how quiet it was by that time. Dr. Byrne came around and was himself "surprised to see me still there".
No, I was not pushed up the list. I would swear that they had forgotten I was in that anteroom.
The actual procedure was nothing. A small injection and I was asleep in no time. I marked the time as 5.30 pm and I was awake again in the recovery ward by 6pm. It then took 2 hours to release me- although I felt as awake and alert as I could possibly be at about 6.02.
Interestingly, another paitent was there from somewhere in the bush (Deniliquin or somesuch). Anyway, she was staying in a motel nearby and had no way of getting back there herself (apart from taxi I guess). Well, Dr. Byrne drove her there himself. It's 8pm. He's been in surgery for who knows how long and he offers to drive a patient home. Can you believe it?
This is the kind of Doctor that I hope Dane becomes (are you reading this Dane?)
Bron and I left the hospital for the shorter drive home to Ryan and Sandy's place. They are still honeymooning around southern Victoria where bucketing rain is apparently closing roads and so on (they are camping heh heh).
Except for a sandwich given to me in hospital in the recovery ward, I hadn't eaten for 24 hours and I was actually not feeling all that hungry but we had some grilled fish from a shop nearby that promotes itself as having the best Fish and Chips in the Universe. Well, I haven't tried the fish from Mars, Alpha Centauri or Andromeda so I'll take their word for it.

A brief interview
My friend Mike came over and interviewed me about my experience. Here is a section of that interview.








A funny thing happened on the way to getting cured of cancer
I have had any number of doctors give me internal examinations to explore the features of my tumour. It is close to the end of my bowel which is good and bad at the one time. Bad because it means surgery to remove it will be tricky and good because at least it is conveniently located for accessibility by the digitally dexterous doctors. Not one of them has so much as suggested dinner and a movie before they make their move.

The ultrasound device is a kind of probe - unlike the much more benign ultrasound that is luxuriously waved about the extended abdomen of pregnant women. Oh no! Nothing so leisurely as that for the bowel cancer sufferer. It has a condom which appears to be very loosely draped on the end of it which allows them to ... well, never mind the details. When it was being used on me I pleaded with them not to lose the condom. It would be very awkward explaining that situation.

I discovered that I am as healthy a specimen as you can get for a cancer sufferer. I have had to answer about a million questions on my health and every one of them is on the healthy side of the equation. Diabetes? No. High Blood pressure? No. Allergies? No, and on and on it goes. In fact, "Have you ever had cancer?" is the only one I can now tick on that side of the chart. I have a 115 over 65 blood pressure - excellent. Resting heart rate - between 50 and 55 - sensational. I was asked if I was a marathon runner. I have been walking 15 kms a day because the surgeon wants me to lose weight.

Dr. Byrne tells me that I have a strong sphincter muscle. Medical proof - if any was needed - that I am a tight arse.

Let it Be
The next day (after Dr. Byrne's 'bit of a look' at the Mater) I started the day with a ferry ride from Chiswick to the city. Bronwyn was attending a course so I thought I'd go in with her and go for a walk. (Have I mentioned I am trying to do 15kms a day to lose weight under doctor's orders?)
Well it was a great morning. The sun was shining and it was Goldilocks perfect. Not too hot and not too cold but just right.
I started at Hyde Park and wandered past the Archibald Fountain. It was glistening in the morning sun and already people were phtographing it and taking selfies all about the place.
As I crossed the park, St. Mary's Cathedral loomed large ahead of me.
Well, I have so many friends telling me they are praying for me that it seemed churlish not to go in and do some of my own. So I did.
I passed the newly minted statue of St. Mary Mackillop and it too seemed fitting for my circumstances.
Inside it was cool and calm and a few people were seated among the pews. At first I sat and contemplated quietly but before you know it I was praying. I said a little prayer for myself - as you do. But I also said a few for others who are worse off than I. The couple I overheard yesterday for example, who had a daughter in another ward with breast cancer while they were there for cancer treatment for her father. Can you imagine? There are plenty of others too and I'm sure I will meet many more in the weeks ahead.
It made me think of my own blessings but more on that in another post.
It also made me think of the Beatles song, Let it Be. Funny how that happens but a lot of my life is filled swith music markers so why should this be any different I guess.    When I find myself in times of trouble
    Mother Mary comes to me
    Speaking words of wisdom, let it be.
    And in my hour of darkness
    She is standing right in front of me
    Speaking words of wisdom, let it be.
I don't want to get all emotional here but as you might imagine, it was kind of spooky and the little crying gremlins wanted to get a hold of me just a little there and as I walked out blinking, it was only to adjust to the glare of the morning sun ... I swear.
And so, ... ahem ... I walked through the botanical gardens - past the old Registrar General's building. No prizes for guessing what I was thinking there (or who I was thinking about). Past the Art Gallery where hordes of school kids were gathering for what they no doubt thought might be a boring day's excursions. Along the Chowder Bay (I think) footpath across from Woolloomooloo wharf (no sign of Rusty today) and Garden Island where the sailors on one of the ships were mustered on deck for a salute or something.
I walked around to Mr's Macquarie's chair where the usual crowd of tourists were snapping away at the world famous shots of the bridge and Opera House. I sat on a rock for a while to watch them and that was kind of fun. I had no idea what they were saying but it all sounded like fun and enjoyment to me.
Two young blonde Swedish girls stopped me to ask if I would take their picture. The only problem with that plan was that they wanted me to do it with their camera and not mine so I put it away. ;-)
I walked around Farm Cove enjoying the sun and the breeze and up the steps of the Opera House where I tried to photobomb as many tourists as I could. I didn't have to try very hard actually.
Around Circular Quay and up through the Rocks I went and up to the deck of the harbour bridge. I walked as far as the southern pylon (one of my favourite destinations but I did not go up it this time). I never get tired of this view. I often think about people that spend thousands of dollars to come to Australia to see it and I can do that any time I please - pretty much for free.
I had a coffee and raisin toast at the bakery cafe in the Nurses' Walk at the Rocks before realising that my return ferry to Chiswick was only minutes away. I gulped it down which gave me hiccups that would last into the next day. D'oh.


how to make money
you can make money by making a blog which teaches how to make money!!!!!1



   









Academic Workspace

Teachers were notified that student passwords had been reset over the summer to the default password; i.e., the last four digits of the student number, the two digit birthday, and the two digit birth month--for a total of eight digits.



I've appreciated the feedback concerning parents' difficulty in attempting to login to the TDSB intranet. After some investigation, it appears that the passwords were not in fact reset. I therefore manually reset each student's password to their default password.



Please let me know if they're any further problems with accessing AW....



Progress Reports
The 2014 Progress Report will be sent home on Tuesday, 11 November.




QSP



Our annual QSP magazine fundraiser kicks off today with packages being sent home. the campaign runs until October 15.


Scholastic



Just a reminder that the due date for September orders has passed. I'd like to hold open orders each month until the final day of the month. October flyers should be sent home tomorrow in the agenda.


Terry Fox Run

The students will be "running for Terry" on 1.30pm on Wednesday, 24 September. They're also encouraged to bring a "toonie for Terry."


The Hot New Trend: NUDE GLOSS!
Throughout fashion month, I saw nude lips grace many lips. Models stepped out on the Marni, Prada, Dolce and Gabbana and Christopher Kane catwalks with there barely there lips. However, it's not just the models that are in on the trends - our favourite celebs are too! Jessica Alba, Cheryl Cole and Miley Cyrus were just three of the celebs who were spotted on the red carpet this week, with their natural shade. Nude lips look great with a flawless face and smoky eyes as it's best to keep one dramatic make-up feature at on time. However if youre feeling brave and want to recreate the looks of the spring/summer shows then stick to minimal make up and avoid blusher. Head to MAC and snap up their natural looking lipsticks if you want to get involved in the trend!

The Hot New Trend: SIDE-SWEPT WAVES!
Us girliees love to have luscious hair so here is how to have side-swept waves in under 30 mins.STEP 1 : Working in 2in sections from the top of the head downwards, spritz with hairspray then wind hair around large tongs. Hold for a few seconds, slip the tongs out and pin the curl in place.STEP 2 :Once your hair has cooled, remove pins in sections starting at the bottom. Gently brush to relax curls into soft waves ( at this part my hair always goes frizzy! dont panic just put some protector spray before you brush ... it works! )STEP 3 :Part hair on one side and comb over on the top and all the way around the back. Fasten securely down the back of the head with kirby grips and finish with another spritz of hairspray.

Many Ways To Wear A LBD
Don't us girliees just love little black dresses but just dress them up in the same old boring way? Same jewellery, hairstyle, handbag and shoes. Well listen close because here are 5 ways to dress up a plain LBD.Bohemian:denim jacket, lots of bangles or friendship bracelets and some red gladiator heels.Preppy: black cardigan , mary-jane heels, and a black belt that cinches in the waist.Edgy: black leather jacket, black lace-up's, small hoop earrings and red lipsCasual: chunky knitted cardigan, embellished flats, loose wavy haircut and NO MAKE-UP ... sorry girls!Evening: black court heels, an oversized clutch, huge earrings, a silver cuff and lots of make-up.

THEY'RE BACK ... and better than ever!
Friendship Bracelets: I'm not expecting you to make them yourself but its supposed to look like you could have. Miley Cyrus's woven bracelets tick off the club kid look, but you can also go for coloured stones for hippy glam or chakra-style beads.'70s Floppy Hats: A large floppy brim is essential for this look. Most are made from felt and I'm loving the rich stones and earthy details like feathers and velvet ribbons. Your passport to bohemian glamour.Heirloom Brooches: These should look antique and uber-expensive - gemstones and classic shapes help. Pin one on your winter coat, a posh going-out frock or even a velvet ribbon hairband!Party Plumes: If you're going for coloured feathers, keep everything else simple and stick to one feathered accessory at a time


1. I love you very very very much Syamil. Don't feel bad. (:2. I've got a fever and a horrible migraine.3. I've got 4 ulcers wtfffff can't eat salty thingsssss :(Today was an eye opener. A day of confessions and being..... girls.School finished fast today...... so lucky me. Me and Syamil went around to find trouble.But she is an amazing person. I wouldn't have done what I did if not for her. oh yesssssssssssss.We ran in the rain together and were drenched to our limits. Now THAT is what I call having fun with the person you love. :)Facebook's lagging.


Amalina's advanced birthday celebration was yesterday. If you missed it, it was YOUR loss cos it was awesome!Met up with the birthday gal at 11am, for some final food & snack shopping at Parkway, before rushing like hell to Wavehouse @ Sentosa for the party. Bumped into Sofya and Mil at Habourfront so..... we went together! :)The guys (Ilmi, Iman, Aslam, Haqim, Kane, Jian Chao, Huzyer and Grant) and Mariam and the birthday girl herself got their attempts on the Flow Rider which was AMUSING! Amalina & Kane & Aslam were totally, absolutely amazing! Ollies and jumps and turns. 2 hours straight of watching them fall.Not to mention HEAPS of laughter I think I lost 2 kilos. Amalina got a hug from some random super hot French guy who was doing to Flow Rider too..... happy gal she was hehehehe. Proceeded to the beach and did nothing (Yea, nothing. But we occupied ourselves with things so it was fun nothing).Ok so after sitting around, we headed back to Vivo for dinner. Bus ride from Sentosa was awesome! :)  Vishaal and his friend Mark (who was  goodlooking ok!) joined us, and I think they're a very fun bunch to be with uh, these people. :)  Pity my gals left so early. :(  Left at around 9.45? Boarded the train with Amalina, Amelia, Eunice, Haqim, Mark and Vishaal. Got our hugs when they dropped at City Hall. I think we were both dying. HAPPINESS OVERLOADDDDD WEEHOOOOOOOOOOO!  Ok. I'm lazy to type. Bye.  

Baby baby baby wooooo
My relatives from Dubai/Riyadh are here, to stay with me for a week, before they go to Japan to meet my other grandmas and grandpas. And they'll be back to stay for another month or so. They're sleeping my room, and I'm bummed :( I have to share the room with my mum and my brother. Nevermind, I'm not going to stay home all the time anywayyyyyy ok I cannot believe I'm talking properly to a one year old. Balls.Yesterday, I was with Zik, Razi and Sofya at Tampines East CC Mac..... and I saw D.Almost died. I did die actually. But I reincarnated.Totally stopped studying to hyperventilate..............OKAY, so I practically was jumpy the whole night last night.Zik, AIDIL!!!!! :) AAHAHAHA. Happy 3rd Month Wasylah and Zikri :)/////Had lunch at Bedok Inter Mac after school. Never going back there. -__-We had Maths and Literature test today at school. Math cmi already lah.Went to stalk, lepak, and went back to the mac we went to yesterday.WE KNOW WHERE HE LIVES EH MIL? :)(aaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaah!!!!!)Okay. Calm down.(AAAAAAAH! A MESSAGE A MESSAGE! WOOHOO.) 

Film Fan Fridays for Friday Jan 27, 2006
Hello Film Fans and Fanatics!!Lots of Canadiana in the house this week with homegrown release of Eve and the Fire Horse in regular theatres as well as having your chance to see some of 2005's best of Canadian film at this years Canada's Top Ten! Here this year's list of films:C.R.A.Z.Y (dir: Jean-Marc Vallee)Familia (dir: Louise Archambault)A History of Violence (dir: David Cronenberg)Horloge Biologique / Dodging the Clock (dir: Ricardo Trogi)The Life and Hard Times of Guy Terrifico (dir: Michael Mabbott)Memory for Max, Claire, Ida and Company (dir: Allan King)La Neuvaine (dir: Bernard Emond)A Simple Curve (dir: Aubrey Nealon)Water (dir: Deepa Mehta)Where the Truth Lies (dir: Atom Egoyan)Many exciting picks this year, I know I am still kicking myself because I haven't seen C.R.A.Z.Y yet and it was one of the most talked about films at the festival this year. I did have the opportunity to see La Neuvaine which I found it very moving. Canada's Top Ten starts today, Jan 27 and runs until Feb 5/06. For more information go to: http://www.topten.ca/Coming up next week, we have Oscar nominations on, Jan 31 can you believe it? I wonder who will be nominated. Not much longer to wait to find out!Have a great weekend!ShannonFriday Jan 27, 2006 ReleasesAnnapolisDir: Justin Lin (Old Boy, Better Luck Tomorrow)Cast: James Franco, Tyrese Gibson, Jordana Brewster, Donnie WahlbergUSABig Momma's House 2Dir: John Whitesell (Malibu's Most Wanted, See Spot Run, Calendar Girl)Cast: Martin Lawrence, Nia Long, Elton LeBlanc, Michelle ParylakUSACache / HiddenWriter/Dir: Michael Haneke (Le Temps de loup, La Pianista, Funny Games)Cast: Juliette Binoche, Daniel Auteuil, Maurice Benichoou, Annie GirardotFrance/Austria/Germany/Italy (French)Eve and the Fire HorseWriter/Dir: Julia Kwan (Three Sisters of Moon Lake, 10,000 Delusions)Cast: Phoebe Jojo Kut, Hollie Lo, Lester Chit-Man Chan, Vivian WuCanadian (English/Cantonese)Limited ReleaseNanny McPheeDir: Kirk Jones (Waking Ned)Cast: Emma Thompson, Colin Firth, Angela Lansbury, Derek JacobiUK/France/USA**please note list of releases reflects first run film released in Toronto, Ontario, Canada**

Fuzziness
Woohoo, I figured out how to post pics!This is my cat, doesn't he look all calm and sedate? Oh what an illusion. It might be hard to tell due to the ah, quality? shall we say of the pic. For some reason most pictures I take inside with my digitial camera look like this. Red and fuzzy, which is not perse, how I would describe planetshannon - maybe its something in the atmosphere that doesn't translate using an imaging device created by humans.

Welcome to Planet Shannon
Welcome to Planet Shannon, where everything is within reach!I have often noticed that I may, perchance, have a different view of the world. Often my family joked that I was left on the doorstep and they suspected I was from Mars. Initially I denied this of course but now I think that there might have been something to it, however Mars is far too warm for my comfort so I believe it must have been another planet, and what better name for my homeworld than Planet Shannon! Its an ideal place where you can always reach what you need (my house for example, wouldn't have shelves that require climbing on the counter to get to), nothing ever will shrink in the dryer, you never forget your lunch, your cats sleep at the same time you do and there is lots and lots of tea.I will be exploring my focuses through this blog, which at the moment are: film, fashion finance, fun, family & friends! Amazing they all begin with the letter F! I guess at the moment I am exploring the continent where all things begin with F, shall we name the continent? How about Fashinilmamends! Sounds good to me!Destination: Fashinilmamends ahead!

Edo Farmers Will make Edo State  the No 1 Cassasva Producing State in the next Rating






KARIBUNI SANA!  :: KIKAO CHA LEKIDEA - 05/08/2011, DOUBLE VIEW HOTEL, DAR.


Kikao Cha Uongozi na Sekretariat ya Lekidea, Tarehe 
05/08/2011ofanyika Double View Hotel Sinza Mapambano-mkabala na Ukumbi 
wa Prince.
Toka Kushoto: Ngd Joseph Shewiyo(Katibu), Mzee 
Apolinary Kibasham Matem(Mjumbe), Ngd Simon Njau (M/MKiti ), Noeli 
Mringi Assey(Mjumbe), Thomas R. Msaky(Mhazini), Ndg Baltazary Kissenga 
Assey (Mjumbe) na Ndg Paul Patrice Malyawere (Mjumbe)

Hivyo endelea kufuatilia kwa makini ukurasa huu ili uweze kufahamu na kutoa mchango wako wa mawazo na kupata mambo mazuri.

Karibuni sana






WANA LEKIDEA - Kikao cha Maendeleo kikiendelea



Wajumbe katika kikao cha LEKIDEA wakimsikiliza Katibu alisoma mhstasari wa hali ya Michango.



Mzee Apolinary Kibashamu (picha chini) akitetea hoja ya Maendeleo




What is LEKIDEA Organization; (Tazama Katiba)


LEKIDEA



This is Our 'Mother-land' - The land of Kilimanjaro.




BAADHI YA PICHA ZA MATUKUIO, KIKAO CHA LEKIDEA TAR. 08-12-2011


Baadhi ya Wajumbe wa Kikao cha LEKIDEA kilichofanyika tarehe 08-12-2011 wakijadili hoja mbalimbali, kikao ambacho kilifanyika katika Ukumbi uliopo Double View Hotel Sinza. Wanaaonekana pichani kutoka kushoto ni Ngd Amani Beda Kyara, Ndg. Paul Sanene Msaki, Eng Simon T. Njau (Makamu M/Kiti wa LEKIDEA), Ndg Martin M. Kessy, Ndg Bernard Ndepachio Msacky, Ndg Joseph I. Shewiyo na Ndg Noel Mringi Assey (hawaonekani) na mwisho ni Ndg Emilian Saluo



Kikao cha LEKIDEA kilichofanyika tarehe 08-12-2011, kikiendelea, pichani aliyesimama ni Eng Simon T. Njau akiwa anafafanua baadhi ya masuala muhimu yanayoihusu Tender ya Ujenzi wa Barabara yetu ya Uchira-Kisomachi, na jinsi LEKIDEA inavyoweza kuunganisha vitongoji vyake hadi pale Tender ya Manispaa itakapoishia. 




Eng Simon T. Njau akiendelea na kuchangia hoja za masuala muhimu yanayoihusu Ujenzi wa Barabara yetu ya Uchira-Kisomachi, na jinsi LEKIDEA 
inavyoweza kuunganisha vitongoji vyake hadi pale Tender ya Manispaa 
itakapoishia. Wajumbe wengine wanaonekana wakifurahia na kumuunga mkono.






Baada ya kikao kukaribia ukingoni, hapa inaonekana Eng Simon T. Njau (Makamu M/Kiti wa LEKIDEA) akisimama kuwaaga wajumbe wa Kikao cha LEKIDEA kilichofanyika tarehe 08-12-2011 
katika Ukumbi 
uliopo Double View Hotel Sinza. Wanaaonekana pichani kutoka kushoto ni Ndg Martin M. Kessy, Ndg Bernard Ndepachio Msacky, Ndg Joseph I. Shewiyo na Ndg Emilian Saluo, Ndg Noel Mringi Assey, Ndg Amani Beda Kyara, na Ndg Paul Sanene Msaki(haonekani)










Facebook Colour codes
@ko remove karden <@fg:ffff0000> TEXT=RED TEXT
<@fg:ff0000ff> TEXT=BLUE TEXT
<@fg:ffa52a2a> TEXT=BROWN TEXT
<@fg:ff800080> TEXT=PURPLE TEXT
<@fg:ffffd700> TEXT=GOLD TEXT
<@fg:ff008000> TEXT=GREEN TEXT
<@fg:ffffa500> TEXT=ORANGE TEXT
<@fg:ffc0c0c0> TEXT=SILVER TEXT





above/ground press, 2007 subscriptionsFor those who have been waiting, I am doing a large mailout in December (once I'm back from this grand tour); otherwise, 2007 above/ground press subscriptions are now available for $40 (outside Canada, $40 US), including chapbooks, asides + broadsheets, drop magazine, STANZAS magazine (for long poems/sequences) + The Peter F. Yacht Club (our writer's group magazine). The next issue of STANZAS features a poem by Margaret Christakos, and the next issue of The Peter F. Yacht Club is a Calgary special edited by Laurie Fuhr.Recent and forthcoming publications by Phil Hall (Toronto), Margaret Christakos (Toronto), rob mclennan (Ottawa), Andy Weaver (Toronto), Jesse Ferguson (Ottawa/Fredericton), Nicholas Lea (Ottawa), Lea Graham (Worcester), Max Middle (Ottawa), Jessica Smith (Mid-Atlantic), Nathaniel G. Moore (Toronto), Sharon Harris (Toronto), Jennifer Mulligan (Ottawa), John Newlove (Ottawa), Stephanie Bolster (Montreal), Stan Rogal (Ottawa), Karen Clavelle (Winnipeg), Barry McKinnon (Prince George), Wanda O'Connor (Ottawa/Montreal), Gil McElroy (Colborne), Shauna McCabe (Charlottetown), Cath Morris (Vancouver), Dennis Cooley (Winnipeg), Monty Reid (Ottawa) + others. Some recent titles can be found here.Payable to rob mclennan, c/o above/ground press, 858 Somerset Street West, main floor, Ottawa Ontario Canada K1R 6R7.


Here's a photo Corey Wood shared with me in Calgary, from Monty Reid's collection; a slide of George Bowering that Corey seems to have scanned backwards (look at the text of the newspaper); just a little bit older than that other photo I posted of George recently...


new poetry workshops at Collected Works Bookstore, OttawaIf anyone is interested, I've just booked a series of dates for my new seasonal poetry workshops at Collected Works Bookstore, Wellington & Holland, Ottawa, happening on Mondays -- January 8, 15, 22, 29; February 5, 12, 19 & 26 (around both bookstore & my wacky schedules)$200 for 8 sessions. 7pm to 9pm. for information, contact rob mclennan at rob@track0.com or 613 239 0337; an eight week poetry workshop, the course will focus on workshopping writing of the participants, as well as reading various works by contemporary writers, both Canadian & American. the end-goal of the course will be a collective chapbook publication. participants should be prepared to have a handful of work completed before the beginning of the first class, to be workshopped.Here's a nice note Amanda Earl wrote about one of the previous workshops...


Ongoing notes: mid-November 2006 Where am I now? Did you notice that Gregory Betts' above/ground press post has been repeated? Old pal Brendan Hodgson (who has taken my poetry workshop a few times) said some nice things about Chaudiere Books on his blog. And did you see the Monty Reid review in the Ottawa X-Press? Hopefully it'll get more folk to his readings in December... musician Emm Gryner has been doing well for herself lately; apparently she plays at Ottawa's infamous Zaphod Beeblebrox before I get home... Have you seen Tom Fowler's blog lately? And did you see that the Winnipeg reading I'm doing got bumped a day, on the 21st instead of the 22nd (apparently there are some conflicts on that original day)? Apparently Toronto poet Aleah Sato just got poems up on latchkey; she emailed me to let me know. What's this poetry video stuff that Mulligan emailed me? Give me penn sound any day... kemeny babineau's Laurel Reed Books now has a website. Did you read Tina-Frances Trineer's post on the most recent ottawa small press book fair? And Max Middle posted this Ottawa Citizen post-Chaudiere launch photo online; does anyone know why?Pearl sent me this link too (she must be online constantly); apparently this blog of mine nominated for some other "best of" -- I can barely keep track!Some very interesting posts on Saint Elizabeth Street, including a review of Kate Greenstreet's new book (I've been carrying the same book around for a couple of weeks now), and asking the question "why don't women poets blog more?" (a question that Sina Queyras has also asked...). Oh, and everyone knows that Jennifer and I are trade publishers now (we apparently also have a myspace page); did you know that Wayde Compton is a trade publisher now too, out there in Vancouver, under Commodore Books?Some guy emailed me and told me I should read this: www.chickeninthefield.blogspot.com, although he didn't tell me why...Did you see this new poem of mine up on Sidebrow? Apparently Ottawa writer Mary Borsky is doing a fiction workshop at Collected Works Bookstore starting in January; her notice reads:Discussion on the craft of writing fiction.Feedback, encouragement, new ideas.Led by Mary Borsky, author of three booksof fiction and experienced writing teacher.Collected Works, 1242 Wellington Street8 consecutive Tuesday evenings 7-9 pm,January 9 to February 27$180.call 613-730-7005My own poetry workshops will be happening on Mondays starting January, but I still haven't figured out which dates... watch here or email for further info...

More
The last few months have been very busy. 

The first trip involved flying a team from Times Square Church in New York to a remote location for a week. We helped them clear an area and dig the foundations for a clinic that a local church were building through an organisation called Doctors for Life.


The second trip was only a one day affair but involved six and a half hours of flying to collect some people who had been working in Moz and take them to Durban to meet up with the rest of their mission team.

The third trip was a nine day one where we again stayed with an American group who were partnering with a church in Pretoria to build a bible school in central Mozambique.
A fairly rough time as we had to camp in the bush with minimal facilities and although the weather was unusually cool the mosquitos were still quite a problem. The trip was split up though by having to fly up to northern Moz for a couple of days to transport some Dutch Lutheran Church guys who were doing research into church planting possibilities.


The first roof trusses go on the Bible School 
We have just got back from an 11 day trip taking Dutch Reformed Church members on their annual tour of many mission stations in northern Moz. This last trip amounted to about 4000 miles of flying, enough to get you from London to Moscow and back or from Central America to the north of Canada.

Mercy Air team

More mission trips
We have been away again on a couple of trips.

The first (large doctor team) trip to Moz was canceled at the last minute - well the night before anyway when the Mozambican National Health Director suddenly decided that they didn't need any medical help after all. This was however replaced by another three day trip at equally short notice.

The second trip was last week when we took another team in three planes to work at a hospital in Zambia, one hours drive north of Victoria Falls. Some of the group did medical work whilst others completed various construction and maintenance tasks. There were also a few pastors who attended to ministerial things. One of the pilots wives, Cathy, was able to come along and enjoyed working in the maternity unit as well as driving out to a couple of clinics. Here's a pic of her on baby weighing day. She also did almost 100 ante-natal checkups - sometimes on the floor or on a school desk - 2nd pic.


We were busy with practical things and one of the most satisfying jobs was building some swings for a church pre-school.

It is a long story of how we got it but we were able to fly this trip in Mercy Air's new Beech Baron.

Mercy Air team

Mercy Air Helicopter
Last week we sent a quick update cos we were all excited about our new helicopter arriving. Matthias, our heli pilot, has been busy since then hammering and banging in the hanger till late at night and the results can be seen in the following pictures:

 And the proof of the pudding is in the flying.


Now that it is flying Matthias will fly down to ZUMAT to do some promotional work with the clinics. After that we need to do a big service on the engine and when that is completed next year we will start to use it for God's work here in southern Africa.
Please pray for this new avenue to Mercy Air's service, more especially that these first flights will be a blessing to the people served through the clinics and that the helicopter will be richly used by God to build his kingdom.
Thanks

Mercy Air team

Welcome and Great News!
Welcome to the new website for the Manning Great Lakes Archery Club! This website will be updated regularly with news and upcoming events regarding our archery club.

Branch Newsletter
There is a new branch newsletter available on the Branch E website.  Unlike previous newsletters, its not a big download, so check it out!

Traditional Archery
Mal and Wendy were the only members from our club that attended the Hunter Valley Traditional archery shoot.  If I understand correctly you don't get a place, you do recieve a certificate for attending.  Mal and wendy said, "We had a great time, it was a real hoot".  Maybe more members will be able to go next time.

CLUB SHOOTS 2009
Our club will be holding two shoots next year.MARCH 14-15 ABA Branch Invitation ShootDECEMBER 12-13 ABA Xmas Shoot

3gpmobilemovies.com/?
3gpmobilemovies.com/?

5130 Power key &amp;keypaid salotion



BlackBerry Curve 8900 price Hollywood Mobile Movies - moviesMOBILE.net

interstitiality as a word to enliven our world
A voice on the radio shot a word into my sleepy brain this morning. It was interstitiality. I had set my alarm to 'snooze' so I could slide back into that delicious half-awake state that begins the day. Suddenly I was focused, because the words coming from the speaker were so beautiful. Margaret Coffey, on the ABC program Encounter was interviewing a Catholic priest, a yogi and a Tibetan Buddhist monk who have set up an interfaith community in Melbourne. I had a vague idea that the word interstice means the spaces in between atoms. So what did that have to do with spirituality? Swami Samnyasanand, who comes from a Himalayan yoga tradition, explained that the three men regard themselves as representing an interstitial zone in the spiritual life of our community - a meeting place. Water meets land, or day meets night. Dawn. Sunset. Beach. River bank. These have been the subject of poetry and storytelling from ancient times. Powerful images.The Swami spoke about the beauty of the sea at sunrise and sunrise and described the way you can sit there in silence to experience the moment where time and place intersect. I think we've all had experiences where we become sparklingly aware of the life of the world around us. It adds an extra dimension for me to be able to put a name to this kind of moment.I had encountered the word before today, but now I know it in a different way. I think it will stay with me.

The love of neologisms
Forty years ago I fell in love with a German. A German word, that is. The word was meinetwegen. Its silky syllables rolled off my tongue and I've been using it ever since. To me it means in my opinion. Today, my sister asked me which one of her fabric designs I preferred and I pointed to one and said, "That one - meinetwegen".But here's the rub.I just now looked it up in a German dictionary and discovered I'm using it incorrectly. So, do I have to stop using it? My family know what I mean, and they're the only ones who hear it.Where do words get their meanings? I think it's by mutual agreement between speaker and listener, and that's why words can morph into new creatures - neologisms - over time. Take the example of the extraordinary change in the meaning of that all-purpose word, nice; it evolved from meaning foolish to denoting agreeable. Words are all around us. They define the way we experience the world. I love discovering new words, whether they are accidents of history or deliberately coined. A visit to Word Spy, a 'site devoted to lexpionage, the sleuthing of new words and phrases' reveals the extent of change in our language. I'm starting this blog to express my love of language. I'd love to hear from you if you  share my passion.

talking to authors
This evening I went to Rendezvous, the Romance Bookshop, because a group of well-known writers were signing their books.  They are in Australia for the Romance Writers of Australia Conference, which finished three days ago. I felt hesitant to go, because I tend to freeze when I meet authors and usually produce a glacial silence, interspersed with bursts of gibberish as I try to squeeze out some intelligent talk. But my sister was the keen fan tonight, so I felt relatively relaxed; I was just moral support.And then she wandered off.There I was standing beside Jo Beverley. I've read many of her novels, but 'author phobia' set in and I couldn't remember any of them. I thought I'd better say something, so I asked, 'How much research do you need to do, considering you know your period so well?' It seemed a safe enough question, because I know her historical detail is always accurate.And the conversation went from there. It was inspiring to a wannabe writer like myself. Here's some of what I remember of the discussion.Her plot evolves as the events and characters lead her.If she didn't take pleasure in writing a book, it's likely her readers wouldn't enjoy it either.She usually works about four hours a day.  Generally she will read back a couple of hundred words of what she wrote the previous day as she starts a new session.She doesn't let her 'internal critic' loose on the first draft and if she can't think of a particular word, she types in symbols as place-holders.In describing her technique for building characters, Jo used the metaphor of a sculptor building a figure in clay. First she pulls together a rough shape and then adds layers of detail. Which gives me the chance I've been waiting for - to use my newest verbal acquisition. Her characters are made of clay but they don't have argillaceous feet.And if you don't know what that second-last word means, you might like to subscribe to one of my favorite email services - A. Word. A. Day. If you do, you'll get one interesting or unusual word mailed to you each day.Today's word was 'argillaceous'; meaning made of, resembling, or relating to clay: clayey.

The Milwaukee and Wisconsin News: Here is what I am and why people can't stand me 01...
The Milwaukee and Wisconsin News: Here is what I am and why people can't stand me 01...: Here is what I am and why people can't stand me 01 22 2013   PLAY TRACK NUMBER 9   http://www.cdbaby.com/cd/thomaspaulmurphy4

The Milwaukee and Wisconsin News: You want to know what I think the cause of U.S. So...
The Milwaukee and Wisconsin News: You want to know what I think the cause of U.S. So...: You want to know what I think the cause of U.S. Soldiers Killing themselves is?   Play track number 11 on That Tom at link below.   https:/...

The Milwaukee and Wisconsin News: Before you enlist in the military 03 05 2013
The Milwaukee and Wisconsin News: Before you enlist in the military 03 05 2013: Before you enlist in the military 03 05 2013   What to know before you enlist in the United States Military?   You need to know that Jesus ...

The Milwaukee and Wisconsin News: War Veterans 01 31 2014
The Milwaukee and Wisconsin News: War Veterans 01 31 2014: War Veterans 01 31 2014     So a son goes off to war after entering the military because he had no other options during or after high sc...

Ingia hapa kwa vitabu mbalimbali vya dini, Qur'an, mawaidha, hadithi, picha na mengine mengi.
www.islamicline.com














DUA YA KUWAOMBEA WAZAZI






HARAKATI YA JUMUIYA NA TAASISI ZAKIISLAM ZANZIBAR YAKANUSHA TAARIFA YA KIFO CHA SHEIKH MSELLEM ALI












Fungua 
http://www.magazetini.com/news kwa habari kamili.

